Headline: San Mateo County Death Notices —  April 2, 2024, to April32, 2024
URL: https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/san-mateo-county-death-notices-april-2-2024-to-april32-2024/article_403a0632-f1d9-11ee-9dc8-77aa46edf4ce.html
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 05:00 PM
Content:


The following are names of those recorded deceased in San Mateo County on 4/2/24 to 4/3/24:

Julio Ayala, 104, Burlingame

Johnny Dominguez, 47, Daly City

Martha Barrientos, 94, South San Francisco

Mustafa Mohammed, 81, Daly City

Jesus Salvador Contreras, 44, Menlo Park

Elvira Co, 65

Source: County of San Mateo Office of the Coroner
AISummary:

The names of those recorded deceased in San Mateo County on 4/2/24 to 4/3/24: Julio Ayala, 104, Burlingame. Martha Barrientos, 94, South San Francisco.Mustafa Mohammed, 81, Daly City. Jesus Salvador Contreras, 44, Menlo Park. Elvira Co, 65, San Jose. John Dominguez, 47, Daly city. Martha Barriento, 94. John Peralta, 47.

---

Headline: Silicon Valley water district sues one of its directors
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/santa-clara-county/2024/04/03/silicon-valley-water-district-sues-one-of-its-directors/
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 04:18 PM
Content:


The region’s largest taxpayer-funded water supplier is suing one of its own board directors weeks after they censured her.

Santa Clara Valley Water District officials announced they plan to file a lawsuit against Director Rebecca Eisenberg at the March 26 board meeting, but did not provide further details. Eisenberg’s colleagues censured her last month for unauthorized removal of documents relating to an investigation into her behavior. The agency was looking into claims that Eisenberg fostered a hostile work environment and made sexist remarks. Eisenberg made the same accusations against district officials.

Eisenberg said she notified employees of her intent to take the documents and that other directors, as well as Valley Water CEO Rick Callender and district counsel Carlos Orellana, had their own copies.

“Suing me for documents they already have in their possession is a recipe for failure by an agency who has zero concern for public interest,” Eisenberg told San José Spotlight. “Once again Valley Water is using ratepayer funds as if it is their personal piggybank — the exact behavior that has earned Valley Water its reputation as the ‘golden spigot’ for decades.”

Callender declined to comment. A Valley Water spokesperson could not say on Wednesday whether the lawsuit had been filed. On March 26, Eisenberg tweeted that the lawsuit seeks to claw back the records she took.

The ongoing controversy comes two months after San José Spotlight first reported that Eisenberg took the documents from Valley Water’s San Jose office as part of the agency’s $587,497 probe against her. Investigators substantiated nine out of 25 total complaints accusing Eisenberg of harassing or offensive conduct from Callender, Orellana and other employees.

Eisenberg ruffled feathers on the water board almost immediately after unseating her predecessor Gary Kremen in November 2022, who faced allegations of his own that included workplace bullying. Eisenberg blasted Valley Water for failing to hold Kremen accountable and make changes after an investigation found Kremen violated district policies when he bullied, verbally assaulted and threatened district workers.

In early 2023, Valley Water officials said they received numerous workplace complaints accusing Eisenberg of gender discrimination and making inappropriate comments. Documents obtained by San José Spotlight alleged Eisenberg blamed the region’s infrastructure issues — such as flooding — on men who “love to build things” using concrete.

The agency’s expensive investigation was made public in February. It also details an incident in June last year, where Eisenberg told Board Chair Nai Hsueh that “English isn’t your first language so I want to make sure you understand.” The comment came after Hsueh told Eisenberg she didn’t know what the Latin term ad hominem meant, which “shocked” Eisenberg.

Eisenberg told investigators she was not demeaning Hsueh on the basis of race or national origin, but instead was “accommodating (Hsueh’s) language barrier,” the report said.

Eisenberg also leveled eight accusations of discrimination, harassment, abusive conduct or retaliation against Callender, Orellana and the district, though the agency’s hired investigators determined there wasn’t sufficient evidence to support her claims.

Eisenberg said the investigation is just retaliation by Callender and Orellana in response to concerns she raised about sexism at the agency.

The board of directors, including Eisenberg, was allowed to view 2,000 confidential pages related to the investigation — including supporting documents and interviews with employees — in a secure room near the Valley Water clerk’s office. Members could not take photos or copies of the sensitive materials, and were told the documents couldn’t leave the room.

“I never denied taking home this print-out because the CEO has his own copy and even has a digital copy. So does the chair. So does the district counsel. They all have both digital and printed versions. I only have a print-out,” Eisenberg said. “So why exactly am I not entitled to have the exact thing that they have in their possession?”
AISummary:

Santa Clara Valley Water District officials announced they plan to file a lawsuit against Director Rebecca Eisenberg. Eisenberg’s colleagues censured her last month for unauthorized removal of documents relating to an investigation into her behavior. The agency was looking into claims that Eisenberg fostered a hostile work environment and made sexist remarks. Valley Water officials said they received numerous workplace complaints accusing Eisenberg of gender discrimination and making inappropriate comments. The ongoing controversy comes two months after San José Spotlight first reported Eisenberg took the documents.

---

Headline: Thousands of upset Santa Clara County nurses strike
URL: https://www.mv-voice.com/santa-clara-county/2024/04/03/thousands-of-upset-santa-clara-county-nurses-strike/
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 08:45 AM
Content:


By B. Sakura Cannestra at San José Spotlight

Dozens of nurses filled the street in front of O’Connor Hospital in San Jose for a three-day walkout over higher wages and working conditions.

The Registered Nurses Professional Association (RNPA) went on strike yesterday and will stay out until Thursday at Santa Clara County’s three public hospitals — Santa Clara Valley Medical Center (VMC), O’Connor and St. Louise — after the union and county hit an impasse over wage increases and relocating nurses for temporary assignments to adjust for patient volume. A tentative agreement has been reached on other key terms including workplace safety, the county said in a news release.

The mediator’s proposal suggested a 13% pay raise over the next 3 1/2 years, but the union has asked for a 15% increase over the same time frame. County and RNPA leadership both claim the other party has walked away from the bargaining table. The union represents more than 3,000 nurses.

The other sticking point about reassigning nurses to different hospitals in the system will not work because the hospitals are too disjointed, the nurses union said. That contradicts county leaders’ recent claims that the system has been thriving since the 2019 purchase of St. Louise and O’Connor hospitals.

Milae Tol, RNPA representative and O’Connor Hospital nurse, said reassignment issues can sometimes be as fundamental as proper wound care. She said turning a patient to inspect their body and skin is different at O’Connor than VMC. VMC has a spinal cord injury ICU, and turning someone with such an injury requires a different technique.

“We had a lot of asks that we let go of because eventually, it came down to that temporary work location,” Tol told San José Spotlight. “I would need training and they really weren’t allowing us to add language like that to the proposal.”

The county has brought in about 1,000 travel nurses to continue operating the three hospitals during the strike, according to County Executive James Williams. He added that several hundred RNPA nurses have been deemed essential and will continue working during the strike. The travel nurses have cost the county more than $20 million.

“Our commitment is to minimize any impact on patient health care, that’s why we brought folks in,” Williams said at a news conference Tuesday. “We know that the services that are provided through the county health system are lifesaving essential services.”

Greta Hutchinson, a nurse who returned to O’Connor in 2021, has worked on and off at the hospital since 1995. She said having a nurse who is unfamiliar with hospital procedures and policies, such as where certain equipment is stored, can be “scary” for medical workers and patients.

“If they built up a float team and hired nurses to staff a float team, then probably we would be more open to saying, ‘Yeah hire some young people to do that,’” Hutchinson told San José Spotlight. “They get experience in different units. But if you want to take me and float me to the different units, I wouldn’t want to do it. I’d opt out.”

The county said in a news release it would provide safeguards to reassigning nurses by moving them to departments where they have been trained, and giving them the ability to decline an assignment by calling out. They would also receive an additional $50 and be placed at locations within 20 miles from their regular hospital.

The strike comes at a trying time for one of California’s largest public hospital systems. In February, Regional Medical Center informed county leaders of plans to close its cardiac and stroke centers, raising questions about how the county’s other hospitals will shoulder the demand and sustain those critical services.

The county’s $250 million shortfall going into the 2024-25 fiscal year will force hard decisions regarding service cuts and program funding.

County leaders have also said union nurses received between 30% and 42% compounded salary increases since 2020, but nurses said those increases were compared to 2019 salaries and not enough to match current competitive wages.

“That was just a realignment to bring us back up to 2019 levels,” Amy English, RNPA representative and O’Connor Hospital nurse, told San José Spotlight. “Meanwhile, all the nurses in the Bay Area have closed their contracts again, and they’re again well beyond us.”
AISummary:

The Registered Nurses Professional Association (RNPA) went on strike yesterday and will stay out until Thursday at Santa Clara County’s three public hospitals. The union and county hit an impasse over wage increases and relocating nurses to adjust for patient volume. A tentative agreement has been reached on other key terms including workplace safety, the county said in a news release. The county has brought in about 1,000 travel nurses to continue operating the three hospitals during the strike, according to County Executive James Williams.

---

Headline: Plan to cut into El Camino Park for transit route faces resistance
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/stanford-university/2024/03/27/plan-to-cut-into-el-camino-park-for-transit-route-faces-resistance/
Date and Time: Mar 27, 2024 09:10 AM
Content:


A proposal by Stanford University to convert a strip of land of El Camino Park into a roadway for buses received a mixed reaction from the city’s Parks and Recreation Commission on March 26, with some members urging the university to replace the parkland that would be lost.

The plan, which Stanford and the Palo Alto city officials are looking to place on the November ballot, calls for “undedicating” about about 0.33 acres of land at the park to create a direct connection on Quarry Road for buses between the Palo Alto Transit Center and El Camino Real.

Currently, buses need to rely on University Avenue and University Circle to get to El Camino, a route that takes more time and creates congestion for other road users, project proponents say.

Leslie Lowe, Stanford’s director for transportation and environmental planning, said that buses currently take more than 1,200 daily trips on University Circle in both northbound and southbound directions. The Quarry Road link would reduce these trips by about 59%, she said, improving throughput on University Avenue and reducing emissions.

The change is expected to reduce bus trips by five to eight minutes, Lowe said. Some bus operators on the Marguerite system, which serves Stanford, would be able to take buses out of service because of the time savings.

“The bus would be able to do the route so much quicker, so they wouldn’t have to run as many buses,” Lowe said. “It’s huge savings.”

But while Stanford and the city’s Office of Transportation fully support the change, members of the parks commission had some concerns about losing parkland. Even though the roads would only take up about 0.24 acres in a largely unused portion of the 10.75-acre park, Shani Kleinhaus argued that these numbers downplay the project’s impact.

Stanford is also hoping to include a buffer zone as part of the park “undedication,” which would raise the amount of needed land to 0.33 acres. The location of the proposed road, she suggested, would also make a larger portion of the park inaccessible to visitors. The actual loss of “usable parkland” is about one acre, she said. 

She argued that as part of the project, Stanford should find an acre of space elsewhere that would be dedicated as parkland to compensate for the loss.

“Even if you plant some trees and make it nice for connectivity, that is good,” Kleinhaus said. “But we’re losing parkland, which is really, really precious, and the city keeps trying to get parkland and we’re losing parkland.

“Stanford should find a place to provide parkland — one acre.”

Commissioner Jeff Greenfield also called the loss of parkland a “big deal” in Palo Alto and suggested that finding land elsewhere could make the ballot initiative more palatable to voters. While undedicating parkland is extremely rare, it’s not unprecedented. In 2013, voters undedicated 10 acres of land in the Baylands so that the city can explore the construction of a waste-to-energy facility, a project that never came to fruition. Kristen O’Kane, director of the city’s Community Services Department, said this was the city’s only park-undedication vote since 2000.

“If there are opportunities to do some sort of a swap to … effectively barter some new parkland for the parkland we’re undedicating, I think that would significantly help get this passed,” Greenfield said.

But just like the 2013 measure created a rift between Palo Alto’s environmentalists, the new proposal is raising questions over whether it’s greener to preserve parkland or improve public transit circulation. Philip Kamhi, Palo Alto’s chief transportation official, argued that the proposed transit road would bring environmental benefits because it would reduce the distance buses would have to travel.

He pushed back against suggestions that Stanford should provide parkland at another site and argued that the project would bring “an environmental benefit, a public transit benefit and a local congestion benefit.”

“With the buses doing less travel in the area, the air quality actually improves, even with existing fleets,” Kamhi said, noting that most bus operators will soon be required to go fully electric. “So this proposes a pathway with less vehicular travel, in particular for uses in this area, because they’re doing less turning movements.”

While the commission didn’t take any votes on the project, most members acknowledged the project’s benefits, including the proposed bike and pedestrian paths that would accompany the road improvements. Commission Chair Amanda Brown shared Kleinhaus’ concerns about the new road cutting off access to a larger part of the park but also touted the circulation improvements that the project would bring.

“Whether or not it’s suitable or not, it does slice right in the middle of a site, so I understand the tradeoffs,” Brown said. “It does provide more access to parkland, so that I’m all for.”

The city has until Aug. 9 to place the measure on the November ballot.
AISummary:

Stanford and the Palo Alto city officials are looking to place on the November ballot, calls for “undedicating’ about about 0.33 acres of land at El Camino Park. The plan would create a direct connection on Quarry Road for buses to get between the Transit Center and the park. The change is expected to reduce bus trips by five to eight minutes, Stanford’s director for transportation and environmental planning said. Some members of the parks commission had some concerns about losing parkland.

---

