Headline: Palo Alto council seeks more El Camino improvements as part of bike lane project
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/04/02/palo-alto-council-seeks-more-el-camino-improvements-as-part-of-bike-lane-project/
Date and Time: Apr 02, 2024 10:11 AM
Summary:
In doing so, however, council members also insisted that El Camino get furnished with additional safety improvements such as “No turn on red” signs, bike boxes and better speed enforcement. The state Department of Transportation, which is spearheading the bikeway project as part of its broader effort to repave El Camino, will consider these additional measures over the next two or three months.

The council’s 6-1 vote, with Council member Greg Tanaka dissenting, wasn’t the type of ironclad commitment to El Camino bikeways that Caltrans officials were hoping for. The state agency, which has jurisdiction over the thoroughfare, had requested that the council pass a resolution officially removing parking spaces along El Camino, which Mountain View and Los Altos have already done. The council stopped well short of that.

The April 1 vote did, however, create a path for getting to the final decision in a fairly short period of time. It directed Caltrans to return with additional safety measures based on the “safe systems” approach, which aims to reduce the number and severity of collisions. While Caltrans officials are exploring those improvements, city officials will form their own task force to explore ways to make intersections along El Camino safer and to consider other impacts of the bikeway project, including the displacement of vehicle dwellers and the loss of on-street parking that some area businesses depend on.

An overwhelming majority of the speakers who addressed the council at the April 1 hearing strongly favored the El Camino bike lanes. More than 35 project proponents, including members of the Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition, urged the council to support the Caltrans project, which they argued would make biking safer.

Tom Oey, a bike advocate, alluded to the victims of the two bike fatalities that occurred in or near Palo Alto in February, one on Embarcadero Road and another on Foothill Expressway in Los Altos Hills. The community cannot afford to delay progress on making El Camino safer, he said.

“We need much better bike facilities everywhere and especially on El Camino. Just do it!” Oey said.

Others argued that bike lanes would help businesses by making storefronts and restaurants more accessible to people without cars. Maria Rimmel, who lives on Homer Avenue, said she and her fiance don’t own a car and exclusively bike, walk and take transit. She was among the more than 30 speakers who advocated for the bike lanes at the meeting.

“If a business is not safely accessible by bike we’re probably not going to go,” Rimmel said.

Not everyone was as excited about the bike lanes. Galen Fletcher, owner of Sundance the Steakhouse, characterized the bike lanes as an existential threat to his business, which has been on El Camino and Leland Avenue since 1974. He said his business needs about 25 parking spots. Without these spots, customers will pass up on his business and go to other restaurants that have adequate parking.

“To have my business suffer and quite possibly fold as a result of unintended consequences of providing a bike lane on a highway that’s arguably not safe for bikes even with a bike lane is tragic,” Fletcher said.

For Caltrans, the bikeways are a needed addition to the paving project as part of the agency’s recent pivot toward a “complete streets” philosophy, which aims to accommodate all modes of road users. It’s also a matter of safety, according to Nick Saleh, District 4 division chief with Caltrans. According to a Caltrans analysis, the segment of El Camino along Palo Alto and a portion of Mountain View had 33 collisions between 2016 and 2020, triggering the need for bikeways as a safety measure.

“We had 33 crashes and we need to address those crashes,” Saleh said. “By implementing the bikeway, we would reduce the crashes and incidents of the bikes riding against the flow.”

Not everyone, however, is convinced that the project would reduce collisions. At prior hearings, planning commissioners and community members noted that Palo Alto has other north-south connections that are much safer for cyclists than El Camino, most notably Park Boulevard and Bryant Street. Council member Pat Burt questioned whether the bikeways would actually improve safety, absent additional improvements.

“If we create the false sense of security without providing actual security, then we have a greater risk perhaps rather than a lesser one,” Burt said.

And a recent report from consultants Fehr & Peers argued the Caltrans plan doesn’t account for the dangers of riding alongside cars going at high speeds on El Camino. Vice Chair Ed Lauing concurred.

“I am concerned that we are with the project as presented bringing more bikes to a high-traffic, high-speed thoroughfare,” Lauing said. “And just putting some green paint on the ground isn’t really moving the needle on bike safety.”

Others were more sanguine about the prospect of El Camino bike lanes. Council members Vicki Veenker, Tanaka and Julie Lythcott-Haims all supported a motion proposed by Veenker that would have committed the city to supporting the bikeways but then also pursued further improvements after the bikeways were in place. That motion failed by a 3-4 vote.

“I want to make sure we get started with the bike lanes and then we do everything in our power to make them even safer, even better for our community,” Veenker said. “I’m not happy with just the painting, but I do think it’s a good way to start.”

With neighboring cities adopting bike lanes, Veenker said she’d hate to see Palo Alto left out.

“I think we should be a good neighbor,” Veenker said. “We don’t want to be the gap in the smile — the missing tooth.”

Tanaka, an avid cyclist, was particularly enthusiastic about the El Camino project and suggested that moving ahead with bikeways would make El Camino more accessible to casual cyclists who today would not have the confidence to ride there. He also noted that unlike with most local bike projects, this $40-million effort is being funded by Caltrans.

“This stuff is pretty expensive and sometimes you have to think about not letting good become the enemy of great,” Tanaka said.

---

Headline: Review raises safety concerns about El Camino bike lanes
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/03/22/review-raises-safety-concerns-about-el-camino-bike-lanes/
Date and Time: Apr 02, 2024 08:35 AM
Summary:
But a new review of the Caltrans plan commissioned by the City of Palo Alto reaches a starkly different conclusion. Conducted by Fehr & Peers, the review concluded that the Caltrans proposal fails to address the high-speed conditions that would continue to exist on El Camino and which would continue to pose “significant risks to vulnerable road users.”

The review, which the firm released on March 11, suggests that the Caltrans plan would not be consistent with the “safe system” approach, which the agency has adopted and which the city is preparing to integrate into its new bike plan. The approach, the consultants write, “recognizes the role of kinetic energy (speed and vehicle mass) and exposure as the root causes of severe injuries and fatalities, and requires a redundant, holistic, and proactive approach to address systemic risk.

“The core principles of the approach are to first reduce speed, and then to separate users in space and time consistent with the contextually appropriate speed,” Steve David and Meghan Mitman of Fehr & Peers wrote in the new report.

The bike lane plan, they argue, fails to do that. It does not address the high-speed conditions for vulnerable users in the corridor, which pose the greatest risk of injuries and fatalities. In particular, it retains the present number of lanes and the existing lane widths while removing the “friction” that is currently created by on-street parking, the review states.

The Caltrans plan also does not address turning movement speed at intersections where, according to Caltrans’ data, the vast majority of El Camino collisions occur. The review also noted that the design includes some areas where bicycle lanes drop altogether, leaving no protected treatments for cyclists. High-stress conditions, the review found, “persist for bicyclists traveling the corridor and these weakest links lead to an overall high stress condition that is likely to limit mode shift potential.”

The proposed alignment will also create new conflict points between bicyclists and buses, particularly once bicyclists who currently used the sidewalk shift to on-street riding, the review states.

The review was performed just weeks before the Palo Alto City Council is slated to consider on April 1 a resolution to remove all parking spaces from both sides of El Camino Real to accommodate Caltrans plans. If things go as planned, Caltrans would complete the project next year.

Fehr & Peers didn’t recommend scrapping the project. Instead, its consultants proposed a slate of near- and long-term improvements for Caltrans to consider as part of the bike lane project. These include creating a design that allows buses to stop in the right lane and provide bicyclists with a designated lane to the right of the bus stops; adding “paint and plastic” protections at intersections, narrowing lane width for cars to accommodate wider bike lanes or buffer zones for cyclists; and reconfiguring intersections to shorten the distance pedestrians have to cross the street.

In the long term, the consultants say Caltrans should consider removing one travel lane in each direction and restoring on-street parking to slow traffic. Caltrans should also consider adding new midblock crossings “to serve desire lines for pedestrians and bicyclists traveling to key destinations in the corridor, including bus stops,” they say.

To date, Caltrans’ plan has generated a mixed reaction from the community, with some bicyclists praising the state effort as a much-needed improvement to a dangerous stretch and others arguing that the plan needs significant changes. Dozens of bicyclists and community members attended recent community meetings to thank Caltrans for advancing its plans. One speaker, Emil Abraham, said it would be an “absolute shame” if Palo Alto missed out on new bike lanes.

“I’m glad to have Caltrans on the side of a brighter and greener future and I hope Palo Alto is also on board,” Abraham said at a March 13 hearing.

Others suggested that the current plans fall short and urged revisions. Alan Wachtel, who serves on the Palo Alto Pedestrian and Bicycle Committee, requested additional improvements at crosswalks and suggested at the March 13 meeting that bikeways could become “high-stress areas” if they involve conflicts with drivers at intersections.

Penny Ellson, community volunteer for Bike Palo Alto, requested Caltrans to integrate pedestrian refuge islands and other improvements at intersections to make conditions safer for people looking to cross El Camino. She called the proposal currently on the table an “incomplete complete streets plan.”

“I am overall dismayed by Caltrans’ overall failures to use this paving opportunity to improve crossing on El Camino Real in every city on the corridor, not just PA, especially on school commute routes and transit crossings,” Ellson said. “Paint, which is really all we’re getting at the intersections — and plastic — is a prayer. It’s not a safety plan for people of all ages and ability to have to cross this six or seven lane highway.”

Sergio Ruiz, Caltrans’ complete streets coordinator, said at a March 13 public hearing that the agency’s decisions on El Camino were informed both the Caltrans policy on “complete streets” and existing regional plans such as the Grand Boulevard Initiative and the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority Bike Plan, which underscore the important role of El Camino in connecting communities.

“One of the key findings that came about in reviewing all the planning documents is the desire and need for continuous bike facilities along El Camino Real, not just in Palo Alto, but in adjoining jurisdictions as well since it does provide the most direct connections and there is an need to have improved access to destinations on El Camino and not just parallel bike boulevards and bike routes that could be somewhat circuitous,” Ruiz said.

The city’s board and commissions have not taken any positions on the Caltrans proposal, though at a recent hearing, some Planning and Transportation Commission members voiced concerns about the design elements of the new proposals. Commissioner Keith Reckdahl said during the March 13 discussion that Park Boulevard will remain a superior pathway for bicyclists, even if the new El Camino lanes are installed, and suggested that the city and Caltrans may be “rushing things” when it comes to the bike project.

“I love bike lanes — they are an asset to the community, but we have issues to solve and some of them we can perhaps mitigate, others we won’t,” Reckdahl said. “I think there’s a lot of hope going on here that everything is going to work out, and I hope it does, because it has the potential for really helping out the community. But also there could be a lot of unintended consequences here.”

Human Relations Commission member Mary Kate Stimmler was more sanguine about the El Camino project. While she concurred with Reckdahl that Park will remain a better north-south route, El Camino remains a critical thoroughfare with many destinations that will continue to attract riders.

“I think we have an opportunity to make it a cleaner, neater, safer street right now, which is pretty incredible,” Stimmler said.

---

Headline: Residents frustrated by shifting plans for flood protection
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/palo-alto/2024/04/01/residents-frustrated-by-shifting-plans-for-flood-protection/
Date and Time: Apr 01, 2024 01:06 PM
Summary:
They also eroded many of the plans that Palo Alto and its partner agencies have had in place to protect these neighborhoods from future flooding, dealing a stinging setback to residents who have been waiting for these improvements for more than 25 years.

With the flood damage exceeding projections, officials from the San Francisquito Creek Joint Powers Authority effectively acknowledged that the projects they had planned for Reach 2 — the agency’s second phase of its major flood-control project — no longer suffice when it comes to flood protection. The creek, it turns out, has less capacity than officials had previously thought. And the variations at the top of its banks have made a larger than expected difference when it comes to water spilling over the top and entering neighborhoods.

More worryingly for residents, the creek authority has concluded that it cannot proceed with the replacement of the flood-prone Pope-Chaucer bridge, a project that area residents have long clamored for, until other improvements are made downstream of the project. And after having its assumptions upended by the Dec. 31, 2022 storm, the creek authority does not know at this time what those improvements would be.

Frustrations about the latest delays spilled out during a March 30 town hall meeting, which attracted a crowd of residents from Crescent Park, Duveneck/St. Francis, Community Center and Triple El neighborhoods to Duveneck Elementary School. Many were put off by the latest change of plans from the creek authority, an agency that is headed by elected officials from Palo Alto, Menlo Park, East Palo Alto, Santa Clara Valley Water District and the San Mateo County Flooding and Sea Level Resiliency District and that has been working on flood protection since the devastating flood of February 1998.

“I was flooded in 1998 and I’m very concerned about another flood coming,” said Evan Economos, a De Soto Drive resident.

He was among the residents who pressed the city and the creek authority to be more specific about when they plan to replace the Newell and the Pope-Chaucer bridges. The city is spearheading the Newell Road bridge replacement, which was slated for this year but is now projected to take place in 2025. The Pope-Chaucer bridge replacement, which is being led by the creek authority, is on shakier grounds, according to Margaret Bruce, executive director of the creek authority.

Some improvements have already been made, though they have largely focused on the more vulnerable downstream areas between Newell Road and the U.S. Highway 101. As part of the Reach 1 project that the creek authority completed in 2019, it had fortified these areas by widening channels and building new levees.

But the next phase of planned improvements, known as Reach 2, has not gone according to plans. After the December 2022 storm, engineers from Valley Water flagged the deviation between the creek’s actual activity and the authority’s projections about creek activity, suggesting that the assumptions on which the agency had built its flood-control project may no longer be sufficient.

A review that the consulting firm Schaaf & Wheeler released in February corroborated the Valley Water study and concluded that the creek authority’s prior model has “overestimated creek capacity.” It also found that the “creek geometry and creek roughness are the most important factors to predict overtopping.”

Given the latest information, Bruce said that the earliest that the creek authority can move ahead with replacing the Pope-Chaucer bridge would be in 2027. A key goal is to make sure that any improvements do not place downstream areas at greater risk, she said.

“Figuring out how to remove it or how to change it or how to replace it that doesn’t add to the flood risk of Palo Alto, Menlo Park and East Palo Alto downstream is going to be the hardest thing,” Bruce said.

The Schaaf & Wheeler study, she suggested, underscored the importance of the Pope-Chaucer bridge in protecting other areas from flooding.

“We understand that the slight variations at tops of bank at either side make a big difference about where the water spills and we learned that not only does the Pope-Chaucer bridge cause problems because it’s a choke point and water backs up behind it and spills out, it’s protective of Palo Alto, East Palo Alto and Menlo Park downstream because it retains some of the water,” Bruce said at the Town Hall meeting. “It is illegal for us to transfer risk.”

Not everyone was satisfied with the explanation. Susan Saal, a resident of Forest Avenue, was among those who were frustrated with the bureaucratic impediments to flood improvements. She recalled the anxieties that she and her neighbors experienced during the Dec. 31, 2022, rains.

“We were desperately worried about our neighbors, we were desperately worried about our own property. It was a tremendous crisis,” Saal said. “It is unclear to me what’s holding us up from achieving … what is the right thing to do in balancing these ecological needs with the real problem that we have with the flow of water through this creek.”

The creek authority is also struggling with this question. In March, it went out to bid on a consultant to help it forge a new path forward after the latest setbacks. It expects to hire a firm latest this month and have a new set of alternatives in place for analysis by this fall. It remains to be seen, however, what those improvements would be, how much they will cost, where the funding will come from and whether they will be acceptable to residents around the creek.

Menlo Park City Council member Drew Combs, who chairs the creek authority board of directors, observed in a December meeting that some of the alternatives that had been previously proposed for the Reach 2 segment — including flood walls — had “very visceral and negative reactions from the community.” Bringing these alternatives back could undermine residents’ confidence in the creek authority, he said.

“I’d say we risk a very large loss of trust if we then seem to go back to those alternatives when there was clear public apprehension and say, ‘Well, a new analysis. …’  That’s when trust erodes further,” Combs said.

While major upgrades won’t be coming for some time, the creek authority is preparing for limited creek improvements in the next two summers. This summer, residents should expect to see some site preparation work in the downstream area, she said. The goal is then to widen the channel in the downstream area in 2025 and then augment that work with other projects in 2026 and 2027.

“We have to think very carefully about what is the best solution to remove the problem — to mitigate the problem upstream of the water backing up and spilling — while not adding to the woes of the people of Palo Alto, Menlo Park and East Palo Alto if we were to send all that water down their way,” Bruce said. “We’re looking at that. It may be a while before we have an answer.”

---

Headline: Palo Alto set to rule on El Camino bike lanes
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/03/29/palo-alto-set-to-rule-on-el-camino-bike-lanes/
Date and Time: Mar 29, 2024 02:56 PM
Summary:
But as the council nears one of its biggest transportation decisions of the year, city officials continue to face a thorny dilemma: Should they support a design that many consider to be imperfect and that their consultants say fails to comply with the city’s newly adopted “safe systems” approach? Or should they oppose the project and effectively ensure that El Camino Real won’t see any major bike improvements for four or more years.

The proposal from the state Department of Transportation has galvanized both significant support and vociferous skepticism from local bicyclists and city officials since Caltrans unveiled it last year. Both were in evidence over the past month, as Caltrans officials made their case at public meetings that replacing parking spaces with bike lanes would improve El Camino.

According to Caltrans’ analysis, there were 20 crashes on El Camino in Palo Alto between 2016 and 2020 that resulted in injuries and one fatal collision.

Yet a recent review by the city’s consultant Fehr & Peers found that the project fails to comply with some of the principles of the “safe system” approach, which seeks to minimize the number and severity of injuries related to collisions and which both Caltrans and the city have embraced. Specifically, the review faulted the plan for failing to account for high speeds of motorists along El Camino, which create a hazard for cyclists at intersections and which would continue to pose “significant risks to vulnerable road users.”

The review puts the city in a bit of a bind. While the city hopes to bring safety improvements to its network of high-injury roads — which includes El Camino — as part of an ongoing effort to upgrade its bike master plan, it hopes to do so on its own pace. And as those who use the Charleston-Arastradero corridor can testify, Palo Alto’s pace can feel glacial. The city’s phased plan for improving the heavily used road has been stretching for well over a decade and is still not entirely completed.

While Caltrans has authority over El Camino, which is a state highway, Caltrans officials had assured the city that if the state agency does not get local support for the bike lanes, it would continue to work with local officials on a new plan. But in recent hearings, Caltrans also made it clear that without advancing the current project, which is tied to a broader effort to repave El Camino, delays could jeopardize the project.

If the city were to decide in the future that it wants bike lanes on El Camino, Caltrans would need to look for a new funding source, officials said. And even once this source is identified, the agency would have to start all over with planning and designing.

“Even if we are able to secure the funding, it will take us like four year to develop the project to install bike lanes in the future,” said Aung Maung, senior transportation engineer at Caltrans, at a March 13 meeting of the Planning Transportation Commission and the Human Relations Commission.

Yet moving ahead poses its own risks, city officials say. Council member Pat Burt, who attended the Feb. 29 community hearing that Caltrans hosted to discuss the project, told this publication after the meeting that he remains unconvinced that the proposal from Caltrans would actually make El Camino safer and reduce the number of collisions. He noted that the city has many safer bike routes, including Park Boulevard, and questioned the benefits of attracting more cyclists to El Camino.

Planning Commissioner Keith Reckdahl similarly touted the superiority of Park over El Camino at a recent discussion of the Caltrans project. He also exemplified the city’s ambivalent attitude toward the project. He said he loves bike lanes but noted that many factors remain unresolved, including impacts on local businesses that don’t have off-site parking.

“It seems like we’re rushing things and I’m always worried about rushing things and not making informed decisions,” Reckdahl said.

Others were more excited about the proposal. Planning Commissioner George Lu said that while he was concerned about some aspects of the design, including bike lanes that disappear in certain segments of El Camino, the project would overall benefit the community.

“I think the net ridership on ridership will be positive,” Lu said at the March 13 discussion. “I think there are a lot of use cases where bike lanes on El Camino are different bike lanes from Park — people who ride their bikes on the bus, people who live on El Camino or maybe have multiple destinations along El Camino and don’t want to circuitously detour.”

Human Relations Commission Kaloma Smith, a supporter of the Caltrans plan, said he was struck by the inconsistency between the city’s vision, which is all for bike improvements, and its cautious attitude toward actually implementing projects. He supported moving ahead with the bike plan, its imperfections notwithstanding, and called the Caltrans plan an opportunity to further the city’s values.

“When you start putting bike lanes and other commuter-friendly things on main intersections, you will start generating more opportunities for economic activity,” Smith said. “Also, if you connect to regional bike options, you now create equity because essential workers who are taking the VTA bus can now ride. … So it’s an equity issue.”

A new report from the city’s Office of Transportation lays out four options for the city council to consider on April 1, three of which would delay (and potentially derail) the project. It could adopt the Caltrans approach and remove parking spaces while acknowledging that more improvements would need to be made to align with the “safe systems” approach; defer action until Caltrans plans compliance with “safe system” principles; defer action until Caltrans considers reducing travel lanes on El Camino (which is not part of the current scope of work); or defer action to align the El Camino decisions with the completion of the city’s bike plan upgrade, which is slated for late 2025.

The report from Chief Transportation Official Philip Kamhi also notes that there remains some uncertainty over whether the council will even have the final say over the bike lane project.

“While Caltrans staff have consistently expressed a desire to collaborate with the City on improving safety on El Camino Real, to date, Caltrans has not stated if it will implement the proposed bicycle lanes without a Council vote to support the removal of parking,” Kamhi’s report states. “Caltrans has established that a bicycle facility is needed on El Camino Real based on a safety analysis. Given the safety and complete street policies that now govern state transportation planning, it is unclear if Caltrans will re-pave El Camino Real without adding a bicycle facility, regardless of City support.”

---

Headline: Letter to the editor: Revitalize Cal Ave. and reconsider Valley Water censure
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/letters-to-the-editor/2024/03/29/letter-to-the-editor-revitalize-cal-ave-and-reconsider-valley-water-censure/
Date and Time: Mar 29, 2024 09:11 AM
Summary:
As a former retailer I have been reading the articles and letters re. California Ave in Palo Alto. Signage and beautification alone is not going to to the job to revitalize the area.

For retailers to fill the empty storefronts, they are looking for traffic. And traffic means pedestrians, bicyclists and cars.

Until and unless California Ave is opened up to traffic, things are not going to change much, and more businesses will be leaving the avenue. Very sad.

Jan AartsWebster Street, Palo Alto

Editor:

The Valley Water Board censuring (Regional Politics, March 22) the District 7 representative raises important questions.  

First is the immature squabble with the claim that speech, occurring once is discrimination. Really?

Second is the loss of the representative of District 7 from the San Francisquito Joint Powers Authority. This is undemocratic. This creek flooded 25 years ago and measures to mitigate the potential problem have not been adopted. We need representation NOW.  

Third is the division of this and other governmental agencies (SM & SC counties) into voting districts. If all seven “Directors” had been elected at large, all would bear responsibility and rely on votes from people throughout the Valley Water area. With districts, no other elected representative answers to voters in the other districts. So you can raise your concerns with all the representatives, but expect attention from only one. One rep has little chance of pushing any particular concern to a satisfactory conclusion. With At Large elections, all reps would have to pay attention to your concern and better governance might be expected. 

Raymond R. White  

Whitney Drive, Mountain View

Want to submit your own letter to the editor? Palo Alto Online publishes letters from local residents about news and issues taking place in the community. Send in your letter of no more than 400 words using our “Submit an opinion” form and it will be considered for publication.  

---

Headline: Public Agenda
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-government/2024/03/29/public-agenda-17/
Date and Time: Mar 29, 2024 09:02 AM
Summary:
UTILITIES ADVISORY COMMISSION … The commission plans to discuss the city’s cross-bore verification program; consider a power purchase agreement with Ameresco Half Moon Bay LLC for up to 60,000 megawatt hours per year of biogas energy. The meeting will begin at 6 p.m. on Wednesday, April 3, in the Council Chambers at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 966 9129 7246.

Here’s a roundup of government action this past week.

City Council (March 25)

Priorities: The council approved its objections for 2024 relating to community health, safety, inclusiveness and well-being. Yes: Unanimous

Salary: The council agreed to appoint a seven-member committee to consider salary raises for council members. Yes: Lauing, Lythcott-Haims, Stone, Veenker Yes: Burt, Kou, Tanaka

Parks and Recreation Commission (March 26)

El Camino Park: The commission heard a presentation on a proposal to construct a Quarry Road extension between the Palo Alto Transit Center and El Camino Real, through El Camino Park. Action: None

Planning and Transportation Commission (March 27)

Bicycles: The commission heard an update on the city’s pending update of the Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan. Action: NoneRetail: The commission discussed proposals to support retail, including modifying or removing the ground-retail protection ordinance. Action: None

---

Headline: With $369M in wastewater upgrades, Palo Alto hopes to help stem algal blooms
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/environment/2024/03/28/stemming-the-red-tide/
Date and Time: Mar 28, 2024 05:23 PM
Summary:
It is one of four aeration basins that are arranged in a giant square at the city’s Regional Quality Control Plant, a sprawling industrial complex that receives and treats sewage from Palo Alto and its partner agencies of Mountain View, East Palo Alto Sanitary District, Los Altos, Los Altos Hills and Stanford University. Three tanks are currently filled, while the fourth basin sits empty as construction workers fortify its concrete base as part of $369-million upgrade to the treatment plant on Embarcadero Road — the city’s most expensive and most complex ongoing infrastructure project.

The effort, which the city kicked off in 2022 and which it plans to complete in 2028, is the biggest upgrade that the plant has seen since 1972, when these basins were initially installed, said plant manager James Allen. Its largest component is a $193-million upgrade to the secondary treatment system, an industrial process that removes chemicals such as ammonia and nitrogen from sewage. Other ongoing components of the project include a new power distribution system and the rehabilitation of the primary sedimentary tanks, which are located just west of the aeration basins and which separate the sludge from the liquid.

When the city kicked off the project, its primary goal was to replace aged equipment, Allen said during a March 21 site tour. A long-term plan that the city approved for the wastewater plant in 2012 noted that much of the equipment at the plant is between 35 and 51 years old and shows significant signs of wear and tear.

But just as construction began, the project took on a second mission: preventing another red tide.

The clarion call for this new effort came in the summer of 2022, when an algal bloom killed more than 10,000 fish and turned water bodies connected to the bay a shade of reddish brown. The bloom, which first appeared near Alameda and then spread to South San Francisco Bay and San Pablo Bay, was the largest in recorded history, according to the California Ocean Protection Council.

State regulators have taken notice. The San Francisco Regional Water Quality Control Board, which regulates the region’s 37 wastewater treatment plants, is scheduled to adopt this summer an updated watershed permit that will set targets for reducing nutrients in wastewater. The current permit, which the board adopted in 2019, required wastewater plants to track and report their nutrient discharge into the bay.

The next permit is still under development, but it is expected to give agencies 10 years to meet new thresholds for reducing nutrient loads in the region, said Lorien Fono, executive director of the Bay Area Clean Water Agencies, an association that helps coordinate the efforts of the Bay Area’s dozens of water control plants.

Fono, whose group has been discussing the new requirements with the water board, said the forthcoming watershed permit will create a nutrient limit that would be 50% lower than what the region experienced in the mid-2010’s, when the nutrient levels were at their peak. They have since been reduced by about 10%, she said.

The effort will be neither easy nor cheap, she said. BACWA estimates that it will cost about $11 billion to implement the needed improvements. This works out to about $4,000 per household using the entire system, the agency estimated.

With the upgrade effort, the Palo Alto plant is methodically preparing for this new, nutrient-light world order. The Embarcadero Way facility has already been treating sewage for ammonia since 1980, Allen said. Once the plant upgrade is completed, the plant would also remove between 50% and 60% of the nitrogen in local wastewater, helping to meet the new standards.

“Ammonia is toxic to fish so we’ve been removing ammonia but we don’t break down the nitrate — that goes out to the bay and it’s converted to nitrogen gas out there,” Allen said. “Now we have to take the nitrogen gas out here.”

Fono said that meeting the requirements of the new permit would require Bay Area plants to make the largest investment in wastewater infrastructure since the 1970s, when cities across the country were upgrading their plants to comply with the Clean Water Act. But unlike at that time, when the federal government made billions of dollars available in grant funding, the agencies don’t have any such funding sources.

Her agency is trying to coordinate the regional response. Its members include the five “principal members”: Central Contra Costa Sanitary District, East Bay Dischargers Authority, East Bay Municipal Utility District, the City and County of San Francisco, and the City of San Jose. Palo Alto, which is the sixth-largest water control district, is one of 12 “associate members,” while dozens of other cities and agencies, including the City of Mountain View, are affiliated members.

“This isn’t going to be a contentious permit, but we want to see a thoughtful and strategic approach because this is going to be extremely costly,” Fono said.

Local ratepayers will soon experience this firsthand. When the Palo Alto City Council adopts its new budget in July, it plans to raise wastewater rates by 15% to pay for the various capital improvements at the wastewater plant, which will add about $7.30 to the average monthly bill, according to utilities department staff.

Ratepayers should also expect rate hikes of 9% in each of the next two years followed by 8% and 7% increases in each of the following two, according to a rate forecast from the department. The main drivers are the need to replace aged sewer lines, to refill depleted financial reserves and to pay for debt services on the capital projects at the wastewater plant, according to staff.

Palo Alto isn’t the only agency that is investing in upgrades that aim to reduce nitrogen. The Oro Lomo Sanitary District in Alameda County, for example, recently completed an upgrade to its nutrient treatment process by installing a “sidestream treatment system” on its San Lorenzo plant. The process focuses on the nutrient-rich liquid that results from dewatering anaerobically digested biosolids, which involves microbes breaking down organic matter in the absence of air. Meanwhile, the Union Sanitary District is adding a process for biological nutrient removal at a cost of $509 million, according to a letter that Fono submitted to the water board in January year.

Both the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission and Silicon Valley Clean Water, which is based in Redwood City, are also pursuing sidestream treatment improvements, which are slated to be completed in 2026 and 2029, respectively.

Some districts, like East Bay Municipal Utility District, are trying to meet the nutrient mandate by updating existing infrastructure to maximize nutrient reduction, Fono said. Others are pursuing nutrient-reduction measures through projects that bring other benefits such as water purification. In these cases, the nutrient-reduction component is a happy byproduct that may be valuable but that isn’t as conspicuous as the other benefits.

“Frankly, the advantages of these expenditures aren’t going to be visible on a dayto-day basis by the community,” Fono said of the nutrient-reduction measures. “Assuming we don’t have perpetual algal blooms.”

Palo Alto is in the third category of agencies: those that are already upgrading aged infrastructure and are including nutrient reduction as part of those projects. As part of the pending upgrade, the aeration basins will be divided with concrete walls to create different zones. Some of these would operate without oxygen and will treat nitrogen, allowing the wastewater plant to reduce the nitrogen that gets emitted into the Bay by about half, according to the city.

The plant upgrade, which is being funded by Palo Alto and its partner cities and agencies, is the city’s first major foray into removing nitrogen, a nutrient that serves as food for the algal species Heterosigma akashiwo. Historically, the Bay region has seen relatively cloudy weather, which helps reduce algal blooms because plants need light to grow, Fono said. But thanks to a confluence of factors that include upstream dams and climate change, conditions have become clearer and more favorable to algal blooms, she said.

It’s not entirely clear what exactly the “safe” threshold is for nutrients in wastewater, she noted. But the algal bloom events in 2022 and 2023 are a sign that the region needs to do more.

“For 10 years we have been studying the science to understand the impacts of nutrients in the Bay,” Fono said. “This project is not complete. We know we want to start reducing nutrients but we don’t know what the safe levels are now.”

The aeration basin from which Allen describes the ongoing improvements represents the middle step in wastewater’s journey from the household to the Bay. After getting flushed down the toilet into the sewer system, the wastewater moves through “bar screens” where bars act like filters to remove roots, rags and other solid items. Pumps then send the wastewater into sedimentation tanks where smaller solids like hair and grease get skimmed off while thick sludge settles at the bottom.

As bottom-feeding sludge thickens into cakes and gets trucked out, the wastewater moves through the plant’s two “fixed film reactors,” rusty two-story towers that would be instantly recognizable to anyone walking near Byxbee Park. Inside are films of microorganisms that feast on the organic matter in the wastewater before it moves on to the bubbly aeration basins. Once the renovation is complete, the city hopes to decommission the fixed film reactors and transfer the entire process to the aeration basin area.

The wastewater then goes through further filtering, where layers of anthracite coal and sand remove small particles, before getting disinfected by ultraviolet light and discharging into the San Francisco Bay.

The sheer amount of processes and equipment that is packed into the plant makes the upgrade particularly complex, said Karin North, assistant director of the Department of Public Works. She and Allen likened the upgrade to keeping a patient alive during an open-heart surgery. Every time one aeration basin gets upgraded, the city has to move the pumps and shift the effluent into the other three tanks — a process that will take about five years to complete.

“Other treatment plants that have lots of open land may be able to do it more efficiently than faster than we can, but a lot of the plants in the Peninsula are constrained and it’s one of the complexity aspects of removing a new pollutant,” Allen said.

Allen called the $193-million upgrade of the secondary-treatment process the “largest project in the city’s history.” North noted that it will have taken about 15 years from the point when the city began designing these improvements to their actual completion.

“We’re in the middle of upgrading our facility while we’re running and operating it at the same time,” North said.

Critical to the process are the bubbles in the water, caused by pressurized air blowers about 15 feet below the surface and which prevent sludge from settling at the bottom of this tank. The air, according to the city, supports the microorganisms that remove ammonia and other dissolved solids.

In the future, Allen said, the basin will be equipped with a serpentine path, with some sections with the air off (anoxic zone) and others with the air on.

“We’ll be selecting for the different microorganisms in the different sections of the serpentine paths, in one section to break down ammonia … and in the next section break down the nitrogen,” Allen said.

Once the improvements are complete and the secondary treatment system is enhanced, the city expects nitrogen levels to drop by 50% to 60%. According to Allen, the plant discharged an average of just under 2,000 kilograms per day of total inorganic nitrogen between 2019 and 2023 during dry seasons, which go from May to November. That number has been rising, first to 2,181 kg in 2022 and then 2,277 kg per day in 2023, indicating nitrogen levels are currently rising.

Allen estimates that once the improvements are complete, the nitrogen levels are expected to go down to about 800 kg per day, well within the proposed threshold of the new permit.

“If we do our part, other agencies do their part, all the nitrogen in the Bay will drop and we won’t be at a tipping point causing algae blooms,” Allen said.

---

Headline: City co-sponsors first annual iftar dinner
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/community/2024/03/25/city-co-sponsors-first-inaugural-iftar-dinner/
Date and Time: Mar 28, 2024 03:32 PM
Summary:
Among the 270 attendees at the event were Palo Alto Mayor Greer Stone, council members, school board trustees and community leaders.

The food was donated by several local Muslim-owned restaurants — Zareen’s, Mediterranean Wraps, Anatolian Kitchen, Cafe 220, Oklava Cafe, Arya Steakhouse, Meyhouse, Backyard Brew and Sultana Mediterranean. The musician for the evening was guitarist Brother Khalil Abdullah.

In the spirit of community service that is part of the Muslim faith, attendees helped create hygiene kits for the Ecumenical Hunger Program, an East Palo Alto-based nonprofit that regularly provides food to low-income families in the area.

A few local students and their parents took to the stage to speak about Ramadan traditions, their personal experiences of embracing their Muslim identity, and the importance of inclusivity in classrooms.

“Many of us post October 7 felt scared to be Muslim in Palo Alto,” said Ahmed Datoo, tech entrepreneur and Palo Alto resident, in a speech denouncing the rise of Islamophobia in the city in the wake of the Israel-Hamas war. He also spoke about the simultaneous rise of antisemitism and anti-Middle East and North Africa sentiments that feed the same cycle of hate.

“This notion of community and empathy gives us an obligation, a responsibility to speak up for injustice wherever it may happen,” he said. “We’re stronger as one community as opposed to being divided.”

Datoo, who was born in Tanzania, grew up in New Jersey and came to California as a Stanford student in 1991. Back then, he would break his Ramadan fast by himself in his dorm room.

“It just felt very, very lonely,” he said later in the evening, in conversation with the Weekly. “I feel heartened by coming here tonight and seeing so many different Muslims, non-Muslims breaking bread together. Things have come a long way since I first got out here.”

Stone said he is eager to assuage feelings of mistrust within the community and contribute towards what he calls “a healing process,” that starts with multi-faith and multi-cultural events of this kind.

During his speech, Stone shared that he was introduced to Ramadan customs and traditions as a child thanks to his best friend, a practicing Muslim with whom he went to school at Greene Middle School (then Jordan Middle School), and then Palo Alto High School.

“I don’t think healing and community building is top-down; it has to be bottom-up. Events like this allow us to break bread together, be reminded of our shared humanity, of our love of food and music, and be able to meet each other’s children,” Stone told the Weekly. “It’s nothing that council can do, or really anyone else; it’s going to be us as neighbors reaching out and opening up our hearts with each other and becoming friends again.”

Stone said he was particularly moved by a conversation he had with a 6th grader at the event who told him why the evening was special for her. “She talked about how she sees the Christmas tree at Christmas time and that she has never seen an event that celebrated her religion and her culture,” he said. “I apologized to her on behalf of the city and asked her — what can we do more to be able to make sure that she sees herself reflected in our community? I think we just need to engage people in more conversations.”

---

Headline: Will chain stores make a comeback in Palo Alto?
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/business/2024/03/28/will-chain-stores-make-a-comeback-in-palo-alto/
Date and Time: Mar 28, 2024 12:38 PM
Summary:
Even though the city boasts a variety of businesses that fall under the “formula retail” umbrella, including the CVS pharmacy on University Avenue, Peet’s Coffee at Town & Country Village and the McDonald’s on El Camino Real, council members rarely sing the praises of these establishments. In 2015, the Palo Alto City Council went as far as to ban any businesses from California Avenue that have 10 or more locations unless they receive conditional use permits, a process that can be lengthy and unpredictable.

But with the retail environment struggling, the city may now be changing its posture. As part of its ongoing effort to boost economic development, the city is now looking at revising a host of retail policies, including those that require ground-floor retail in commercial areas. Loosening restrictions on chain stores is on top of the list.

That’s according to the city’s Planning and Transportation Commission, which has been painstakingly reviewing in recent weeks a host of proposals from the city’s business consultants, Streetsense and Michael Baker Associates. During its March 27 review, the commission generally agreed that the city needs to take a fresh look at the formula retail ban and make it applicable only to restaurants — if at all.

The recommendation to loosen the restrictions was also proposed by Streetsense, which surveyed the city’s business environment last year and found that the city has about 461,000 square feet in vacant retail. The number has grown in recent years thanks to the rise of e-commerce and decline of office workers, with more people switching to hybrid or remote work schedules. Consultants suggest that the loss of office workers brings a loss of retail demand equivalent to 111,000 square feet.

Other factors also undoubtedly play a role. High rents and disputes with landlords have pushed some long-time businesses out, including Gourmet Franks at Stanford Shopping Center and Printers Cafe on California Avenue, according to the business owners. Property owners, meanwhile, claim that it’s not the rents that are driving the vacancies but grime and crime, which are deterring would-be tenants.

“I can’t tell you how many tenants we’re that want to come downtown, then they see our downtown and we lose them to Burlingame, to San Mateo, to Stanford,” Brad Ehikian, partner at Premier Properties, a major downtown property owner, said last week at a meeting of the council’s newly established Retail Committee.

The city council has taken notice and has recently directed staff to install new signs and better branding California Avenue and to do a better job in cleaning up downtown area. But while these efforts are advancing, the city is also plodding ahead with reducing regulatory hurdles to encourage businesses.

Commissioner Allen Akin, who serves on an ad hoc committee charged with looking at retail policies, said Wednesday that his group has been receiving feedback from stakeholders about what the city should do, which falls primarily into three categories: simplify the rules, reduce uncertainty and relax restrictions.

There was also broad consensus, he said, that the city should look at three specific policies: removing some — or all — restrictions on formula retail; limiting the areas in which the city’s retail-preservation ordinance applies; and passing code changes that give property owners flexibility to switch to other uses if market conditions change.

The first of those ideas received the most support among commissioners. Chair Doria Summa suggested that the city’s existing formula-retail law, which is based on whether a business has 10 locations across the nation, feels “arbitrary.” She argued, however, that if the city moves ahead with such a change, it needs to make sure that the new businesses remain consistent with the neighborhood-serving nature of California Avenue.

“Any formula retail on California Avenue would have to fit in with the rhythm and size of existing storefronts,” Summa said. “Just like McDonald’s — when they go into the Vatican or Paris or Rome, they don’t look like the McDonald’s on El Camino Real.”

Commissioner George Lu agreed that said that increasing the threshold from 10 locations would be a good start. Even though the city allows other uses through conditional use permits, the process is too risky, he said.

“If we can just relax this upfront, that would make a lot of sense to me,” Lu said.

Commissioners were somewhat less enthusiastic about revising retail-protection ordinance, a law that the council adopted in 2015 to bar conversion of ground-floor retail in commercial areas to other uses. The law, which applies citywide, was enacted shortly after numerous long-time businesses — including Fraiche Yogurt, Jungle Copy and Zibbibo — departed the downtown area and were replaced by tech startups or other offices.

The Streetsense report concluded that the ordinance “discourages the rightsizing of the City’s overall retail footprint, resulting in retail in areas with weaker market conditions and spreading the City’s retail footprint thin.”

While the current proposal wouldn’t entirely remove the ordinance, it would apply it more narrowly. The law would remain in effect in main commercial arteries such as University and California avenues. Other downtown streets, however, would no longer be bound by its restrictions. Commissioner Keith Reckdahl, who also serves on the retail committee, was among those who favored this approach.

“We may want to have different regulations for University and its side streets, or for California and Cambridge (avenues). If there are concerns about what you have on the main street, it doesn’t mean that you have to have the same concerns elsewhere,” Reckdahl said.

He acknowledged that removing the ordinance would be contentious. Some people love it, other people hate it, he said. But he suggested that allowing uses like dental offices on downtown streets outside University Avenue — for instance, Hamilton Avenue — would help support the retail environment because it would encourage people to come downtown for their medical appointments to stick around for the shopping and the dining.

“When we loosen the RPO, we aren’t necessarily allowing tech offices. We’d be expanding what we consider resident-serving businesses,” Reckdahl said.

The consultants had also recommended broader revisions to the city’s zoning code, which is riddled with overlay districts and inconsistencies about which types of uses are allowed in which district. The Streetsense study found that the existing layers of regulation “cause confusion among property owners, developers, and tenants when trying to understand what they are allowed to do on their property, which adds time to approval and permitting processes, increases risk, and may prevent improvements and/or occupancy entirely.”

“It is no surprise that the commercial districts experiencing the most difficulty recovering from the pandemic and experiencing the most vacancy include Palo Alto’s two most heavily regulated environments, Downtown Palo Alto and California Avenue,” the study found.

While this initiative is expected to take more time and resources than the prior two, a good start is to simply create a table of uses allowed in each district, said Dan Wery, a consultant with Michael Baker International. The effort should also include reducing redundancies in the zoning code and simplifying the rules, he said.

Rather than focus on what uses should be allowed in each area, the city could set a standard of whether business generates pedestrian activity, Wery said. Is the new business, for example, open to the public? Does it generate pedestrian traffic that may help other businesses? San Diego, for example, requires certain streets and districts to have “active street frontage” and provides some examples.

“Uses come and go, they evolve. Focus on the outcome that you want. You want activity. You want people going in and out of the door,” Wery said.



Correction: The story initially misidentified one of the locations that Brad Ehikian said Palo Alto is losing tenants to. It is Stanford.

---

Headline: Katie Causey announces bid for Palo Alto City Council
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-politics/2024/03/26/katie-causey-announces-bid-for-palo-alto-city-council/
Date and Time: Mar 27, 2024 09:25 AM
Summary:
Causey, who serves on the city’s Human Relations Commission, is known for her roles at various local nonprofits, including the Palo Alto Renters’ Association, a group that was formed to assist local tenants and that was recently absorbed into the broader pro-housing nonprofit, Palo Alto Forward. Her full-time job is as a community organizer for the Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition.

Causey said it was her experiences in helping the tenants who were facing eviction from Layne Court homes in 2022 — and the council’s response to those evictions — that propelled her to run. The evictions at Layne Court were among the factors that prompted the council to pass a new law in February 2022 that expanded the types of housing that would be eligible for relocation assistance.

“I had just been talking with the community members, neighbor after neighbor, and they were largely seniors who had lived there for 30 years or more,” Causey said in an interview. “They had nowhere to go.”

“And I saw that overnight the council was able to pass this policy and the difference that this made — how that slowed people’s eviction and made a massive difference in people’s lives.”

Housing, she said, would be a top priority if elected. This means not just below-market-rate housing, which everyone on the council agrees is desperately needed, but residential development that targets higher income levels as well.

She also wants to focus on sustainability, which means fixing up sidewalks and making local roads safer for cyclists and pedestrians.

“That means we need roads that aren’t too dangerous for neighbors who walk or bike along them; that we don’t have narrow, cracked sidewalks preventing neighbors with wheelchairs or mobility aids from using them,” Causey said in a statement. “When a road is safe for a 60-year-old in a wheelchair, it’s safe for a 6-year-old on a bike. That’s how we lead on combating climate change — with safe, sustainable infrastructure.”

Causey said that as a council member, she would be committed to creating a more inclusive community. This includes, among other things, organizing Palo Alto’s first LGBTQ+ Pride celebration. Currently, residents need to go to other cities to take part in pride celebrations, she said. Holding a downtown pride parade would not only make more people feel included but it would also enliven the city’s commercial areas.

“Palo Alto is a diverse city; all our community members deserve to feel seen, safe, and celebrated,” she said in her announcement. “Especially in light of rising loneliness, it’s more important than ever that we invest in spaces for community members to come together and strengthen cultural bonds.”

That means we need roads that aren’t too dangerous for neighbors who walk or bike along them; that we don’t have narrow, cracked sidewalks preventing neighbors with wheelchairs or mobility aids from using them. When a road is safe for a 60-year-old in a wheelchair, it’s safe for a 6-year-old on a bike. That’s how we lead on combating climate change — with safe, sustainable infrastructure.”

Causey said she has been interested in volunteering since she was a student at Palo Alto High School, where she joined Key Club and partook in activities like Baylands cleanup days and playground repairs. She went on to George Washington University, where she earned a degree in women’s studies.

She ran for a seat on the Palo Alto Unified School District Board of Trustees in 2020 and fell just short, finishing fourth in a race for three open seats.

She is the first candidate to announce a bid for a council that will see four seats up for grabs in November. Council members Lydia Kou and Greg Tanaka are both concluding their second consecutive terms this year and will term out. Mayor Greer Stone and Council member Pat Burt are both concluding their current terms but are eligible to run again.

Causey has already secured the endorsements of elected officials outside Palo Alto, many of whom have been on the frontlines of encouraging housing in their own communities. These include former Redwood City Mayor Giselle Hale, Mountain View council members Lucas Ramirez and Emily Ann Ramos, East Palo Alto Mayor Antonio Lopez and California State Board of Equalization Member Sally Lieber.

---

Headline: New group to weigh higher salaries for Palo Alto council
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-government/2024/03/26/new-group-to-weigh-higher-salaries-for-palo-alto-council/
Date and Time: Mar 27, 2024 09:25 AM
Summary:
By a 4-3 vote, the city council agreed to create a citizen committee that will be charged with evaluating whether the city should raise compensation for council members and, if so, by how much. The group will consist of seven members, four of whom would be former council members. It will not be able to independently pass raises, but would make recommendations for a potential voter-passed raise beyond the city’s current limit.

In creating the new group, the council veered away from a recommendation from its Policy and Services Committee, which called for a 15-member group that broadly represents the community. Council members also rejected an earlier proposal from Vice Mayor Ed Lauing that all seven members of the committee be appointed by the mayor. It was Lauing and Mayor Greer Stone who last year authored a memo urging higher compensation for council members.

Instead, current council members will each get to appoint one person to the new committee.

Not every member, however, is eager to use this privilege. In a possible preview of a future election debate, Palo Alto council members sparred over the nature of public service and split over whether it’s appropriate to approve salary increases in such quick succession.

Just two weeks ago, the council voted to raise its salaries from $1,000 to $1,600 per month, the maximum allowed under state law for a city of its size (the action will become finalized on April 1 after a “second reading”). As a charter city, however, Palo Alto doesn’t have to follow this limit. While current local law pegs council salaries to the state limit, council can change that through a vote of the people.

The four council members who supported the new committee, Mayor Greer Stone, Vice Mayor Ed Lauing and council members Julie Lythcott-Haims and Vicki Veenker, had no problem with asking the committee — and ultimately, the populace — to weigh in on future salary increases. Much like at past discussions, they argued that raising council salaries is important to attract candidates who otherwise would not be able to afford to serve.

Lythcott-Haims estimated that a council member who spends 25 hours per week on city business get a salary that is equivalent to about $10 per hour. For those who spend 40 hours, the pay is $6.25 per hour, she said.

“The city has over 1,000 employees and seven make less than minimum wage,” Lythcott-Haims said. “Therefore, the council is a position a person can’t remotely contemplate going for if they have to earn a living to pay the bills.”

The three council members who opposed the motion — Pat Burt, Lydia Kou and Greg Tanaka – pushed back against her characterization. Kou called serving on the council a “public service” and said it had never entered her mind that she would be drawing a salary. Burt said that’s consistent with how most people have traditionally viewed council service.

“We had a longtime outlook that these are volunteer positions and that we’re public servants not politicians,” Burt said.

Burt argued that raising council compensation should not be a council priority. In fact, just before the salary debate the council concluded adopting a list of 76 projects that it wants to work on in 2024 to support its priorities. Salary hikes, notably, was not on the list.

The timing, Burt suggested, is also less than ideal. In addition to raising monthly salaries from $1,000 to $1,600, the council is also preparing to approve in the coming months a stipend program that provides $2,000 to each member for technology and communication equipment.

If the issue ends up on this year’s ballot — which may be a long-shot proposition given the looming August deadline and Palo Alto’s passion for process — it would have to compete with two other possible measures: one that would make a strip of land at El Camino Park eligible for a new transit road and another that would allow Palo Alto residents to directly elect their mayor.

“I don’t think this will have great support from the public, and I don’t want it to undermine more important ballot measures going forward,” Burt said. “Even if we have these guard rails to try to make it not appear self-serving, I’m concerned the voters will perceive it that way.”

Tanaka, who has consistently opposed raising council salaries, also rejected the idea that council service should be treated like a job. The proposition to raise council salaries feels particularly off just after the council approved 60% raises for its members. The planned ballot measure, he said, would potentially raise salaries to a higher level than has ever been contemplated in the past.

“It starts creating a professional political class and I don’t know if it’s served better that way or served better by people who have less financial interest in being on council,” Tanaka said.

Those who supported the measure, however, wanted to keep open the possibility of getting the issue on this year’s ballot. Lauing suggested that having the mayor appoint all members of the committee would expedite things and give the council a chance to make the August deadline. Lythcott-Haims agreed, though she ultimately modified the proposal to allow each council member to appoint someone to the new committee.

“In terms of timing of getting something on the ballot, an expeditious process serves us,” Lythcott-Haims said.

---

Headline: Plan to cut into El Camino Park for transit route faces resistance
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/stanford-university/2024/03/27/plan-to-cut-into-el-camino-park-for-transit-route-faces-resistance/
Date and Time: Mar 27, 2024 09:15 AM
Summary:
The plan, which Stanford and the Palo Alto city officials are looking to place on the November ballot, calls for “undedicating” about about 0.33 acres of land at the park to create a direct connection on Quarry Road for buses between the Palo Alto Transit Center and El Camino Real.

Currently, buses need to rely on University Avenue and University Circle to get to El Camino, a route that takes more time and creates congestion for other road users, project proponents say.

Leslie Lowe, Stanford’s director for transportation and environmental planning, said that buses currently take more than 1,200 daily trips on University Circle in both northbound and southbound directions. The Quarry Road link would reduce these trips by about 59%, she said, improving throughput on University Avenue and reducing emissions.

The change is expected to reduce bus trips by five to eight minutes, Lowe said. Some bus operators on the Marguerite system, which serves Stanford, would be able to take buses out of service because of the time savings.

“The bus would be able to do the route so much quicker, so they wouldn’t have to run as many buses,” Lowe said. “It’s huge savings.”

But while Stanford and the city’s Office of Transportation fully support the change, members of the parks commission had some concerns about losing parkland. Even though the roads would only take up about 0.24 acres in a largely unused portion of the 10.75-acre park, Shani Kleinhaus argued that these numbers downplay the project’s impact.

Stanford is also hoping to include a buffer zone as part of the park “undedication,” which would raise the amount of needed land to 0.33 acres. The location of the proposed road, she suggested, would also make a larger portion of the park inaccessible to visitors. The actual loss of “usable parkland” is about one acre, she said. 

She argued that as part of the project, Stanford should find an acre of space elsewhere that would be dedicated as parkland to compensate for the loss.

“Even if you plant some trees and make it nice for connectivity, that is good,” Kleinhaus said. “But we’re losing parkland, which is really, really precious, and the city keeps trying to get parkland and we’re losing parkland.

“Stanford should find a place to provide parkland — one acre.”

Commissioner Jeff Greenfield also called the loss of parkland a “big deal” in Palo Alto and suggested that finding land elsewhere could make the ballot initiative more palatable to voters. While undedicating parkland is extremely rare, it’s not unprecedented. In 2013, voters undedicated 10 acres of land in the Baylands so that the city can explore the construction of a waste-to-energy facility, a project that never came to fruition. Kristen O’Kane, director of the city’s Community Services Department, said this was the city’s only park-undedication vote since 2000.

“If there are opportunities to do some sort of a swap to … effectively barter some new parkland for the parkland we’re undedicating, I think that would significantly help get this passed,” Greenfield said.

But just like the 2013 measure created a rift between Palo Alto’s environmentalists, the new proposal is raising questions over whether it’s greener to preserve parkland or improve public transit circulation. Philip Kamhi, Palo Alto’s chief transportation official, argued that the proposed transit road would bring environmental benefits because it would reduce the distance buses would have to travel.

He pushed back against suggestions that Stanford should provide parkland at another site and argued that the project would bring “an environmental benefit, a public transit benefit and a local congestion benefit.”

“With the buses doing less travel in the area, the air quality actually improves, even with existing fleets,” Kamhi said, noting that most bus operators will soon be required to go fully electric. “So this proposes a pathway with less vehicular travel, in particular for uses in this area, because they’re doing less turning movements.”

While the commission didn’t take any votes on the project, most members acknowledged the project’s benefits, including the proposed bike and pedestrian paths that would accompany the road improvements. Commission Chair Amanda Brown shared Kleinhaus’ concerns about the new road cutting off access to a larger part of the park but also touted the circulation improvements that the project would bring.

“Whether or not it’s suitable or not, it does slice right in the middle of a site, so I understand the tradeoffs,” Brown said. “It does provide more access to parkland, so that I’m all for.”

The city has until Aug. 9 to place the measure on the November ballot.

---

Headline: Should parkland make way for a transit road?
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/03/25/should-parkland-make-way-for-a-transit-road/
Date and Time: Mar 25, 2024 10:07 AM
Summary:
The plan, which Palo Alto and Stanford University have been discussing for years, would create a direct connection between the city’s bustling transit center on University Avenue and El Camino Real, saving drivers and passengers time getting to and from the major corridor. Doing that, however, would require “undedicating” a 0.33-acre strip of land on the eastern edge of El Camino Park, which entails a public vote.

The city and the university have been discussing the project since at least 2011, when they signed a development agreement that allowed for an expansion and reconstruction of various Stanford University Medical Center facilities. As part of that deal, Stanford pledged to transfer money to the city to improve connections between the new buildings and local streets. If the project moves forward, Stanford would foot the $3.2-million bill for the new road, which would stretch from the western edge of the bus depot to El Camino.

According to a new report from Philip Kamhi, the city’s chief transportation official, the new roadway would allow bus drivers to avoid circling back through University Circle to get to El Camino, saving them between five and eight minutes per trip. Stanford would be the primary beneficiary. While about 600 buses serve the Palo Alto Transit Center daily, about half of them are the university’s Marguerite shuttles.

Other agencies that rely on the downtown transit center include SamTrans, Santa Clara Valley Transit Authority and Dumbarton Express.

The city’s capital budget underscores Stanford University’s lead role in both funding the infrastructure improvements and in seeking a ballot measure to make the land available. According to the budget, the university had already spent about $1.2 million on planning and design. If things go as planned, it will spend another $1.9 million on construction in fiscal year 2025, which begins on July 1 this year.

While the university may be driving the project, the Palo Alto City Council is fully on board. Palo Alto’s chief planning document, the Comprehensive Plan, includes a program that explicitly calls for collaborating with Stanford and transit agencies to “pursue improvements to the Palo Alto Transit Center area aimed at enhancing the pedestrian experience and improving circulation and access for all modes, including direct access to El Camino Real for transit vehicles.”

The Quarry Road project, according to Kamhi, would include bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure improvements such as an upgraded crosswalk at El Camino to reduce crossing time and safety measures such as refuge islands and high-visibility bicycle markings. One detail that remains unresolved is on whether it would be a two-way road or an outbound-only transit lane, according to Kamhi’s report.

The city currently leases El Camino Park from Stanford under an agreement set to expire in 2042. Palo Alto had “dedicated” the park for recreational and conservation purposes, which means that any other use would require approval from majority of the voters.

Kamhi noted that the portion of the 10.75-acre part that would need to be dedicated make up about 0.33 acres, which includes an 0.09-acre buffer zone. The portion of the park that would be replaced with a transit way is “underused” and “passive,” he noted. It does not have any playing fields but it does provide “circulation throughput that serves the park.”

If approved, the project would also require removal of about 15 trees, according to the report. And while Palo Alto residents are generally passionate about the topics of tree removal and the reduction of park space, Kamhi argues in the report that the proposed transit road is “akin to a park improvement project in that it improves multi-modal movement to and through the park.”

“The proposed transit connection would enhance the use and enjoyment of El Camino Park and the recreational amenities provided to the residents of Palo Alto and the surrounding communities,” Kamhi wrote.

The city’s Parks and Recreation Commission is scheduled to get an update on the project at its March 26 meeting. It will ultimately be up to the city council to decide whether or not to place this issue on the November ballot.

---

Headline: Letter to the editor: The future of California Avenue is at stake
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/letters-to-the-editor/2024/03/22/letter-to-the-editor-the-future-of-california-avenue-is-at-stake/
Date and Time: Mar 25, 2024 09:01 AM
Summary:
How unhappy I was to read the article, “Printer’s Cafe Set To Shuttle” in your paper dated 3/15/24. I have lived in Palo Alto since 1984, and I have seen a lot of losses of really unique local businesses, especially downtown (Cafe Verona, The Artifactory, and the original St. Michael’s coffeehouse, for example).

Printer’s Cafe is an iconic California Avenue place for friends to meet, solo eaters to eat in peace and quiet, students and anyone looking for a relaxed lunch location where you could eat indoors or out on the patio. But on the very next page, another sad announcement, “Gallery House To Move To Menlo Park.” Yikes! We will be losing a great local art gallery displaying paintings, sculptures, jewelry and whimsical ceramics, handily located behind the cafe. Many of the offerings were affordable, it felt great to support local artists, and it was a nice place to stroll through after a lunch or an excellent cup of coffee.

And all this is going to be replaced by a spectacle of spandex-coated posteriors running on treadmills? Feh! Where is the Historical Society, or at least some local citizens, who would like to see some of the real California Avenue vibe survive?

Dana St. George

Campesino Avenue, Palo Alto

Want to submit your own letter to the editor? Palo Alto Online publishes letters from local residents about news and issues taking place in the community. Send in your letter of no more than 400 words using our “Submit an opinion” form and it will be considered for publication.  

---

Headline: Police: Man with knife robs 7-Eleven
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/crime/2024/03/22/police-man-with-knife-robs-7-eleven/
Date and Time: Mar 22, 2024 05:06 PM
Summary:
Police learned about the robbery at 12:28 a.m. on Friday, when they received a call from the store clerk at the 7-Eleven convenience store at 708 Colorado Ave., police said. The clerk, a man in his 30s, said a man had just walked into the store, brandished a knife and demanded money.

After the clerk gave him money from the register, the man reached over and took a box of cigars, which is valued at about $45, police said.

The man then fled west through the parking lot. According to the clerk, he appeared to be between 25 and 30 years old and was wearing a hoodie sweatshirt with the hood up and a face mask, according to the news release.

Police said officers had arrived at the scene shortly after the call but could not find the man. They are asking anyone with information to call the department’s dispatch center at (650) 329-2413 or send anonymous tips to paloalto@tipnow.org or (650) 383-8984.

---

Headline: Public Agenda
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-government/2024/03/22/public-agenda-16/
Date and Time: Mar 22, 2024 05:01 PM
Summary:
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION … The commission plans to discuss the Quarry Road transit center project, hear a presentation on the city’s bicycle plan update and discuss the city’s field use policy. The meeting will begin at 7 p.m. on Tuesday, March 26, in the Council Chambers at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 999 3789 9745.

PLANNING AND TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION … The commission plans to review a proposal for a condominium subdivision at 739 Sutter Ave., discuss strategies to support retail and hear a report on Palo Alto Link. The meeting will begin at 6 p.m. on Wednesday, March 27, in the Council Chambers at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 916 4155 9499.

HISTORIC RESOURCES BOARD … The board will consider upgrading the status of a property at 261 Hamilton Ave. from Category 3 to Category 2 on the city’s Historic Inventory. The meeting will begin at 8:30 a.m. on Thursday, March 20, in the Community Meeting Room at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 999 3789 9745.

Here’s a roundup of government action this past week.

City Council (March 18)

San Antonio: The council heard a presentation from Cal Poly students about a concept plan to accommodate up to 2,000 new housing units on San Antonio Road. Action: NonePriority: The council approved its objectives in 2024 relating to sustainability and climate change. Yes: Unanimous

Council Rail Committee (March 19)

Rail: The committee heard a presentation from Caltrain about modifications that the city would need to make to its grade separation alternatives to comply with Caltrain’s engineering standards and board policies. Action: None

Council Finance Committee (March 19)

Nonprofits: The committee discussed refinements to its process for allocating grant funding to local nonprofits through the Human Services Resource Allocation Process. Action: None

Council Retail Committee (March 20)

Retail: The committee heard presentations about near- and long-term improvements for downtown and California Avenue. Action: None

Planning and Transportation Commission (March 13)

Density: The commission recommended revising the zoning code to make it consistent with the latest changes to the State Density Bonus Law. Yes: UnanimousBikes: The commission held a joint session with the Human Relations Commission to discuss a proposal from Caltrans to build bike lanes on El Camino Real. Action: NoneRetail: The commission discussed strategies for reducing vacancies in the city’s commercial areas, including downtown and California Avenue. The strategy includes loosening the city’s retail-protection ordinance and relaxing restrictions on formula retail. Action: None

---

Headline: Mayor takes aim at mental health stigma in ‘State of the City’ speech
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-government/2024/03/21/mayor-takes-aim-at-mental-health-stigma-in-state-of-the-city-speech/
Date and Time: Mar 22, 2024 09:01 AM
Summary:
In a March 20 speech that ranged from cheerful and optimistic to personal and vulnerable, Stone highlighted the council’s priorities for the coming year, recapped Palo Alto’s recent achievements on housing, touted the city’s reputation as a global leader on climate change and pledged to focus more on mental health — both as a council member and as an individual.

Stone, a teacher, began his tenure as mayor in January with an announcement that he would be forming a task force composed of teachers, students, mental health professionals from Stanford University and local nonprofits, city officials and school board staff to address a problem that he characterized during his address as a pandemic “more insidious than COVID.”

“I myself lost a friend to suicide and that experience changed me, like it does too many people who have to suffer through such unspeakable pain,” Stone told an audience of about 80 people at the Palo Alto Art Center.

He expounded on these efforts during his speech and recalled Palo Alto’s past struggles to address youth mental health in the wake of teenage suicides. The isolation that many people have experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic only made the problem worse, he said.

Stone also acknowledged that he has been neglecting his own mental health for too long. He said depression runs in his family but rather than confronting it, he has been distracting himself with work or physical exercise. To change that, he said he is about to start having regular sessions with a therapist.

“We all need someone to talk to; there’s no shame in it,” Stone said. “We must normalize it as a city. We can and must do more. That time is now.”

Stone’s words struck a chord with Maddie Park, a ninth-grade student at Castilleja School who became more aware of mental health challenges last year, when she participated in a school club devoted to body positivity. She then joined the Palo Alto Youth Council and, upon hearing of Stone’s new task force, reached out to see if she could join, Park told the Weekly after the speech.

Park said she would like to do her part to shift the community mindset around mental health. Many of her classmates have struggled with mental health, she said, but the stigma that Stone had described around discussing the subject is real.

“I realized I actually didn’t have too many conversations around mental health with my friends or my classmates,” Park said. “It’s really a rare conversation.”

She is hoping to change that. Park is one of three students on the new task force, which also includes members from Palo Alto and Gunn high schools. One of the group’s early objectives, she said, is to widely distribute a mental health first-aid kit that will raise awareness for parents on how to detect and address mental health issues.

In addition to his focus on mental health, Stone used his flagship address to recap the city’s progress on its three other priorities: housing, climate change and economic development.  While the city has yet to win state approval for its new Housing Element, Stone said there are currently about 1,118 housing units in the city’s pipeline, which includes 517 that are designated as affordable housing.

What the city is facing, he said, is not a “housing crisis” but an “affordability crisis.” The city has historically produced more than its share of housing at the market level. A critical challenge is finding the resources to build below-market rate units and to protect residents who face housing insecurity. Housing, he said, “transcends mere shelter.”

“It forms the bedrock upon which individuals and families construct their lives,” he said. “Yet for far too many Palo Alto residents the aspiration of secure and affordable housing remains elusive.”

Stone, himself a renter, cited the city’s recent actions to protect tenants from displacement. These include expanding the city’s laws pertaining to eviction protection and setting a limit on security deposits that landlords can charge tenants. He also said that he will be advocating for a new initiative: a moratorium on evictions of families who have school-aged children during the academic year.

“As we witness the fruition of our reforms, I’m optimistic that our future plans will continue to propel positive development, fostering a community where affordable housing abounds,” Stone said.

Stone also recapped the city’s recent progress — as well as its ambitious plans — on climate change, which include a target of carbon neutrality by 2030. The Palo Alto Utilities Department has recently launched a citywide upgrade of the electric grid to facilitate widespread conversion of residents and businesses from natural gas and to electricity. And the council launched a program to assist people with installations of heat pump water heaters last year.

Palo Alto’s example, he noted, can nudge others to take similar actions.

“If we can inspire enough cities and nations to fervently tackle these challenges and demonstrate that such action is achievable in our small corner of the world, then we can leave behind a legacy of clean air, pristine waters and a thriving planet for posterity,” Stone said.

He was similarly optimistic about the challenges of sprucing up and revitalizing the city’s two main commercial districts, University Avenue and California Avenue. Even though the city’s economy has largely rebounded since the pandemic, with sales tax revenues now back to pre-COVID levels, the recovery has been uneven. Retailers have been hit hard not just by competition from e-commerce but also from the shift in work habits, with fewer daytime people now commuting to the city.

As part of its economic development effort, the city is now rethinking its laws and policies around retail and developing plans to enhance its commercial districts, which he said means making the streets safer, cleaner and more inviting. It also means implementing short-term measures like better signage and improved lighting on California Avenue, which the council recently converted into a car-free boulevard.

While the street remains a work in progress, Stone said he is optimistic that California Avenue will “ultimately create a third-place destination akin to those in cities like Santa Barbara and Santa Monica.”

“It’s imperative that we create a safe and welcoming environment for our community and prospective shoppers, and that just starts with the basics,” Stone said. “So let’s just clean up the streets. It’s really as basic as that.”

Editor’s note:

Help is available

Any person who is feeling depressed, troubled or suicidal can call 988, the mental health crisis hotline, to speak with a crisis counselor. In Santa Clara County, interpretation is available in 200 languages. Spanish speakers can also call 888-628-9454.

People can reach trained counselors at Crisis Text Line by texting RENEW to 741741.

---

Headline: New bikeways, parks proposed for San Antonio Road
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/housing/2024/03/19/new-bikeways-parks-proposed-for-san-antonio-road/
Date and Time: Mar 21, 2024 04:31 PM
Summary:
The traffic-heavy corridor, which separates Palo Alto from Mountain View, in many ways reflects the different planning philosophies of the two cities.

In Mountain View, city leaders have been bullish about development on San Antonio for well over a decade, as evidenced by the specific area plan that the Mountain View City Council approved for San Antonio in 2014 and by mixed-use projects like The Village at San Antonio Center, a development near El Camino Real that includes retail, restaurants and a movie theater. Mountain View’s area plan talks about walkable blocks, transit hubs and ways to make San Antonio a regional destination.

Palo Alto harbors no such ambitions. Its side of San Antonio is generally viewed as high on potential and low on pizzazz. The Palo Alto council hasn’t approved any major planning efforts for the area, which is dominated by one- and two-story buildings and by industrial and commercial uses. Biking is dangerous and shopping is largely non-existent, unless you cross into the Mountain View side.

Now, momentum is building among Palo Alto leaders to follow the example of its neighbor to the south. The city council received on March 18 a report that members hope will be the first step in creating a new vision for San Antonio. Crafted by urban planning students from California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo, the plan envisions a cycle track on both sides of San Antonio, a new park in the area closest to the Baylands and a wholesale conversion of sites along the corridor from industrial and commercial to mixed-use and residential.

The graduate students, who are part of the university’s Community Planning Studio, have been surveying the corridor for that past 20 weeks as part of a project that involved numerous site visits, an environmental study, a community workshop and an open house. They focused on the portion of San Antonio east of Alma Street and they came up with two growth scenarios: one that would add 1,185 housing units to this area and another that would add 2,000 housing units.

In both cases, the students are proposing to rezone most of San Antonio between Middlefield Road and the U.S. Highway 101 from commercial to mixed use to absorb most of the additional housing. One area, near the intersection of San Antonio and Charleston Road, is expected to accommodate the bulk of the new growth, with about 600 new dwellings proposed near this crossing in the low-growth scenario and nearly 1,000 in the high-growth scenario.

Southwest of this area, on the stretch of San Antonio between Middlefield and Alma Street, the plan proposes a mix of single-family homes, duplexes and apartment buildings with 30 to 40 units per acre.

Both scenarios include a spacious park on the northeast edge of the planning area, just west of U.S. Highway 101, designed to both meet the recreational needs of the new residents and to ensure that the most flood-prone sites remain generally free of development. Both plans also include a protected bikeway along San Antonio, between Alma and the highway. Parking spaces would be removed to make way for the new cycle track as well as for parklets and community spaces.

“With amenities such as outdoor seating spaces, plantings, and bicycle parking, the parklet will benefit surrounding businesses while also serving as a core community space for the San Antonio Road corridor,” the report states. “The pairing of the parklet and the cycle track creates an attractive and welcoming entrance into the corridor for pedestrians, cyclists, and drivers.”

The concept also calls for a linear park along San Antonio, near Fabian Way. The park would include “a vegetated pathway and outdoor seating to encourage movement and relaxation,” according to the plan.

“In addition, bioretention basins and low-impact development will be incorporated into the park design to address flooding and runoff concerns,” the report states. “With more people drawn to the park, the use of the cycle track as an alternative mode of transportation will be more successfully promoted.”

Jake Jansen, a Cal Poly student who presented the concept to the council, said the vision seeks to create “lush verdant neighborhoods, complete with bike lanes and safe crossings that Palo Altans expect.”

For the council, the Cal Poly plan is the first step in what promises to be a long journey to develop a new vision for San Antonio. Unlike their Mountain View counterparts, who have been trying to make San Antonio a more vibrant and pedestrian-friendly corridor for well over a decade, Palo Alto council members are primarily concerned about meeting their housing quota.

To get the state to approve its Housing Element, the city must show its plans to add 6,086 residential units by 2031. The current draft, which the city plans to send to the state Department of Housing and Community Development later this spring, envisions adding about 2,000 new units, or nearly a third of the city’s total Regional Housing Needs Allocation, in industrial and commercial areas along and around San Antonio and Fabian Way.

In receiving the plan on March 18, council members generally acknowledged that simply building housing is not enough and that any improvements must come with amenities such as retail, transit improvements and bike safety projects.

“We don’t want to just warehouse people in his corridor,” Council member Pat Burt said Monday, during a discussion of San Antonio. “We want this to be a thriving, safe, engaging community of new residents.”

A key challenge, he said, is that the city is already seeing new projects on San Antonio that may or may not be consisted with the city’s plans for the corridor. Marriott has recently opened two hotels on the 700 block of San Antonio Road, northeast of Middlefield Road. Just east of that, the city has approved a 102-apartment complex at 788 San Antonio Road. It is also reviewing a proposed condominium project at 800 San Antonio Road with 76 units.

“One of the problems is we’re getting the projects piecemeal right now and we have nothing in place that’s being set aside the land necessary for even one set of bike paths, whether two-sets of bidirectional paths or one,” Burt said.

In approving these projects, Burt said, the city should make sure that it has the needed easements to convert a portion of the road to bike lanes in the future.

He and his colleagues generally lauded the efforts by the Cal Poly group to study San Antonio and come up with new alternatives. Council members Julie Lythcott-Haims and Vicki Veenker both praised the study for identifying both potential housing sites and new amenities that would improve the area. Council members also generally agreed that the city should engage with Mountain View on the forthcoming planning effort, given their shared dominion over San Antonio.

Planning Director Jonathan Lait said planning staff is now putting together a request for proposals to solicit consultants for the broader San Antonio effort, which would kick off later this year.

The area will also be evaluated for bike improvements as part of the city’s ongoing update to its bike master plan, according to Chief Transportation Official Philip Kamhi. He thanked the Cal Poly students for getting the transportation conversation started.

Local resident Natalie Geise, who attended the Cal Poly workshops, also said she was pleased with the report.

“The plans put forth really put a lot of thought into how we take the corridor as it is today into a place that we can still move through, and get to a place we can still go while providing for … the community vision that we have for this place,” Geise said. “This was a wonderful stepping stone to the next phase of planning.”

---

Headline: Around Town: Link statistics, a sister city visit and an artistic opportunity
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/community/2024/03/21/around-town-link-statistics-a-sister-city-visit-and-an-artistic-opportunity/
Date and Time: Mar 21, 2024 09:07 AM
Summary:
ALL ABOARD … When Palo Alto rolled out its new rideshare service — Palo Alto Link — in March 2023, the goal was to give local residents, visitors and workers a new way to get around the city while leaving their cars behind. The service works like a cheaper version of Uber, with rides limited to the city limits and costs capped at $3.50 for adults, with further discounts for seniors and low-income residents. Among the beneficiaries from the new service is Stanford Research Park, which is paying the city a monthly fee of $31,000 in exchange for getting its employees free rides in Palo Alto Link shuttles. According to a new report, employees from Stanford Research Park have made up about 27% of all shuttle users between March 2023 and January 2024, with the rate increasing to about 35% in recent months. Growth, in general, has been steady, according to a report from Nathan Baird, the city’s manager for transportation planning. In its first year of operations, Palo Alto Link completed 50,219 rides and saw its ridership grow steadily month over month, increasing by 54% over the course of the first 12 months. About 75% of the trips are taken by returning riders, he wrote, and the average rider takes more than five trips per month. “This fast rider adoption demonstrates that Link is providing a crucial means of transportation throughout Palo Alto — especially to key community resources such as major employers, transit stations, and local schools, as detailed further in the later location sections,” Baird wrote. Despite these successes, the program’s future remains uncertain. Palo Alto Link was launched as an 18-month pilot program thanks to a $2 million grant from the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority. While Stanford kicked in about $744,000, the city will need more funding to keep the program going beyond August of this year. According to Baird’s report, which the Planning and Transportation Commission plans to discuss next week. The key questions that the city will now have to answer is: Should the program continue and, if so, at what service levels? Baird estimated that the city would have to contribute somewhere between $900,000 and $1.5 million annually to retain the service. The larger investment would allow it to keep up with the growth in demand and extend the hours of operation so that Link would be available on the weekdays from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. (today, the hours are 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.). The city is also exploring partnerships with institutions like Channing House, a residential community for seniors that has offered to contribute financially to the program, he wrote.

GOODWILL AMBASSADORS … For more than two decades, Palo Alto has enjoyed a special relationship with Tsuchiura, Japan, with students from the two cities regularly taking trips abroad to learn about one another’s culture. The partnership started in 1993 and became formalized in 2009, when the two municipalities formed a “sister city” relationship. The student exchanges were suspended during the COVID-19 pandemic, as both countries struggled to contain the pandemic. Now, in another sign of return to normalcy, they’re back. This week, the Palo Alto City Council welcomed a delegation of 14 junior high students and chaperones from Tsuchiura with a special proclamation. So Karata, a member of the Tsuchiura delegation, said the two cities were able to resume the program last year after taking a few years off. Karata called the friendship between his city and Palo Alto “priceless.” “I sincerely hope this exchange program will be passed on to the younger generation and that our ties will continue to grow in the future,” Karata told the council.

UTILITY TRANSFORMED … A source of power or a blank canvas? The city’s Public Art Program is looking for 20 artists who want to transform its boring, gray utility boxes scattered around the city’s commercial corridors and neighborhoods into works of art. Open to local artists and artist teams 18 or older, the grants are for $1,000 each and the city says it will give special attention to people from marginalized groups as well as emerging and studio artists who want to break into public art. The city is looking for pieces that explore themes of community connectedness, empathy and vibrancy. All it takes is submitting a statement of interest, examples of previous projects and a portfolio by midnight on March 31 – no design proposal needed until you are selected. More information at cityofpaloalto.org/publicart.

---

Headline: Palo Alto set to ink five-year deal with animal nonprofit
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/palo-alto/2024/03/18/palo-alto-set-to-ink-five-year-deal-with-animal-nonprofit/
Date and Time: Mar 21, 2024 07:32 AM
Summary:
After more than two years of negotiations, Palo Alto is preparing to ink a new five-year contract Monday night with Pets In Need, a nonprofit whose relationship with the city has been frayed by employee conflicts, policy disagreements and public concerns about animal safety.

The proposal, which the Palo Alto City Council is set to approve on March 18, hews closely to the term sheet that council members had tentatively endorsed last August. It roughly doubles the amount that Pets In Need would receive in city funding to $1.4 million per year, with an annual escalator, for a total of $7.37 million. It also preserves the existing prohibition on releasing feral cats after they’re spayed, a policy that Pets In Need was hoping to change.

In approving the new deal, both the city and Pets In Need are hoping for a fresh start after a tumultuous few years. The initial contract that the city had signed with Pets In Need in 2018 committed $3.4 million to what was then envisioned as a five-year deal between the city and the nonprofit, which operates animal shelters in Redwood City and Palo Alto and which touts itself a no-kill shelter.

Relations between the city and Pets In Need ruptured in August 2021, when seven puppies died inside a hot van while they were being transferred by Pets In Need employees from the Central Valley to the Peninsula. The incident triggered a police investigation that resulted in charges against the employees; the resignation of the nonprofit’s Executive Director Al Mollica; a growing rift among staff from the Redwood City and Palo Alto shelters; and a wholesale shake-up in leadership at the nonprofit.

Pets In Need, for its part, had accused the city for failing to live up to its commitment to make capital improvements to the shelter at 3281 East Bayshore Road. The new agreement would require the city to commit $2.5 million in fiscal year 2025, which begins on July 1, to build a new area for cats and small animals, improve the dog kennels and retrofit the medical suite to accommodate large animals, according to a report from the Community Services Department.

Pets In Need would be required to maintain public access hours to the shelter seven days per week, for at least 40 hours per week. It would also have to provide low-cost spay and neuter services to dogs and cats in the service area, which includes Palo Alto, Los Altos and Los Altos Hills. The deal stipulates that the waiting period for animal owners from these jurisdictions would not exceed one month, barring “unexpected or exceptional circumstances.” Pets In Need would also be required to provide low-cost vaccination clinics in Palo Alto at least once per week.

Much like in the current contract, which has been repeatedly extended on a short-term basis to allow for negotiations, the city’s police department will remain in charge of animal control.

While the council is expected to approve the contract, not everyone thinks it’s a perfect deal. Animal Control Officer Jeannette Washington lamented during the August discussion the city’s decision not to further explore an in-house model for animal services and argued that the deal with Pets In Need asks for “more money for less services.”

Council members Pat Burt and Vicki Veenker both suggested at that time that the city explore other options for adoption services, including state-of-the-art regional facilities like Humane Society Silicon Valley in Milpitas. Burt argued that even with a $2.5-million investment, the city’s shelter would still be substandard in comparison.

“Should we be doing adoptive services? Are we best at that?” Burt asked.

Pets In Need CEO Laura Toller Gardner pushed back and said that removing adoption services from the Palo Alto shelter would create a barrier for local residents looking to adopt.

“There’s very few if any shelters in the country that I’m aware of that separate out this kind of services — that completely divorce adoption from everything else they do,” Toller Gardner told the council.

Council members had also flirted with the idea of signing a contract for a shorter duration, perhaps three years. But city staff and Pets In Need requested the five-year timeline so that the organization would have enough time to improve the shelter.

“We want to make sure Pets In Need has ample time to benefit from those capital projects that they will be involved in developing,” Community Services Director Kristen O’Kane said during the August discussion.

Veenker also said she wants to make sure that the new contract, like the existing one, has a termination clause for material breach, with a one-year written notice. The proposed deal includes such a clause.

The council is slated to approve the contract on its consent calendar as part of a list of non-controversial items.

---

Headline: City eager to replace confusing signs, spruce up Cal Ave.
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-government/2024/03/20/city-eager-to-replace-confusing-signs-spruce-up-cal-ave/
Date and Time: Mar 20, 2024 05:20 PM
Summary:
As far as branding goes, the orange barriers are both sadly appropriate and, to most observers, completely unacceptable. Even though the commercial strip between El Camino Real and Birch Street has been closed to cars since June 2020 and there are no plans to ever reopen it, the streetscape of California Avenue still feels improvised and haphazard — a hodgepodge of parklets and outdoor tables with no unifying aesthetic.

The “ROAD CLOSED” signs don’t help, said Bruce Fukuji, an urban architect who is working with the city to improve the California Avenue streetscape, at a March 20 meeting of the council’s newly created Retail Committee. If anything, it has the opposite effect of what’s intended.

“The intent of the sign is to show that the street is open for business because the current impression, with the ‘ROAD CLOSED’ sign, is that it’s not open,” Fukuji said.

Fukuji has a mission that has taken on an increasing urgency: to make California Avenue look pleasant and inviting. Last week, the Palo Alto City Council adopted its economic priorities for the year, which included engaging area merchants on “high priority, rapid implementation projects, i.e. barrier replacement, street cleaning, maintenance, access, signage and outdoor dining guidelines” and developing a permanent car-free streetscape design, which may include new bike lanes or other road markings.

But words like “high priority” and “rapid implementation” are terms of art when it comes to the Palo Alto process, which isn’t known for speed. Even though the council directed staff in November to install new gateway and wayfinding signs, that effort has proceeded at a glacial pace. A stakeholder meeting that city staff and consultants had scheduled with area merchants for early March to evaluate designs for new signs was abruptly canceled because not enough people were willing to attend (a new meeting has just been scheduled for March 26). And the street looks today much like it did last fall.

“When I drive past, I’m struck by the fact that the old tired barriers are still there and the weeds and the turn lane are still there,” Council member Julie Lythcott-Haims observed during the March 11 discussion of the council’s economic priorities. “It still sort of looks like we haven’t yet moved to the next phase of what Cal Ave. will look like.”

Council member Pat Burt was blunter, saying the California Avenue changes that the council requested last November are moving too slowly. Some, he said, are in the “no-brainer category” and should be implemented immediately. These include signs on El Camino Real directing drivers who pass California Avenue toward parking areas on Cambridge Avenue or other nearby streets.

“We’re frustrated that it’s been going so slowly over the last couple of years, and since we set that priority last fall,” Burt said.

Residents and area merchants have taken notice of the lack of progress on California Avenue since it became a car-free street during the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic. Just before the council voted last November to make the street permanently car-free, Michael Eager, who lives nearby in Evergreen Park, complained about the city’s failure to beautify the street.

“We have a vision of Cal Ave. We want it to be an indoor and outdoor dining destination; we want it to be a public gathering space; we want it to be attractive and well-designed, serve neighborhood needs and have vibrant locations for shopping, events and music,” he said.

But in reality, California Avenue is “disorganized and has no aesthetics,” he said.

Jessica Roth, whose family owns The Cobblery on California Avenue, said during the March 20 meeting that she is excited about some of the city’s recent efforts, including its hiring of an economic consultant to help address the vacancies in the commercial district.

“It’s really scary being on this street and seeing business after business leave,” Roth said. “Building owners come in and build the building and then it sits empty for so long.”

The new Retail Committee, which is composed of Vice Mayor Ed Lauing and council member Lydia Kou, is hoping to speed things along. In its inaugural meeting, the committee received presentations about ongoing plans to improve both California Avenue and University Avenue, which is undergoing its own streetscape plan.

But while the University Avenue streetscape project — which envisions wider sidewalks, more uniform dining areas and various bicycle improvements — won’t be completed for four or five years at the earliest, the city is looking to move much faster on California Avenue.

Fukuji said that the highest priorities for California Avenue are installing new road signs, covering the orange barriers with new banners that better channel the street’s brand, and putting up a new gateway sign to improve the street’s visibility to cars zooming by on El Camino. He suggested that the sign should be about 15 feet tall and between 5 and 6 feet in width.

“We’re looking at how to make that as large as possible so it really addresses the vehicle traffic along El Camino, so it’s much more visible,” Fukuji said.

The road signs, he said, could be modified so that instead of “ROAD CLOSED,” they read “ROAD CLOSED TO VEHICLES. OPEN TO PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLES.” The changes would be implemented in May or June under the schedule that Fukuji presented to the committee.

Once these beautification measures are made, Fukuji and the consulting team from Urban Field Studios would spend the summer months working on California Avenue’s new street design, which may include either a single cycle track on the north side of California Avenue with two-way bike movement or two separate bike lanes, one on each side of the street.

The committee endorsed the strategy and recommended proceeding expeditiously with the road sign and branding improvements. Lauing said that the biggest problem that he’s been hearing about from merchants is that existing conditions make it look like Cal Ave. is closed. Just about any new measure, however temporary, would be better than the orange barricades that block off car entrance to California Avenue today.

“If we have to spend money on it and throw it away in a month, that’s OK, because we’re starting to identify to all the people who are going past California on El Camino that we are open for business,” Lauing said.

Council member Lydia Kou urged staff to ramp up enforcement of parklets that don’t comply with the council’s recently adopted regulations, which govern parklet sizes and features like tents and sidewalls, both of which are now prohibited. She was assured by Public Works Director Brad Eggleston that city staff have been doing site visits and notifying parklet owners if their parklets fail to comply with local law.

“I think that we need enforcement so that business owners know what to expect,” Kou said.

---

Headline: AT&T hearing at CPUC over landlines inundated with telephone comments
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/state/2024/03/20/att-hearing-at-cpuc-over-landlines-inundated-with-telephone-comments/
Date and Time: Mar 20, 2024 03:19 PM
Summary:
The carrier of last resort designation, or COLR, is a cornerstone of utility regulation. It obligates a carrier to serve all customers within their territory no matter where they live, even in places with spotty cellphone service.

AT&T has been the state’s COLR since 1996. It is the only state telecommunications carrier that operates landlines. If AT&T’s designation is removed, so goes the physical infrastructure for landline service. 

The potential loss of landlines has irked thousands of customers and spurred local governments to take a stance. Recent letters and resolutions urging the CPUC to deny the application have been written by the boards of supervisors in the counties of Santa Clara, San Mateo, Marin, San Joaquin and San Francisco. 

The company’s application to the CPUC says, “To satisfy its COLR obligation to provide basic telephone service, AT&T California still operates a legacy network composed of copper lines and antiquated circuit switches.” 

AT&T is also asking the commission to release it of its designation as an Eligible Telecommunications Carrier, or ETC. It authorizes the company to receive subsidies from federal and state Lifeline programs so it can provide reduced rates to lower-income customers. AT&T says it does not want the ETC designation because the Federal Communications Commission intends to discontinue its subsidies. 

“AT&T California has committed to continue participating in the state LifeLine program (which does not require an ETC designation) so long as it offers basic service,” said the company in an email Tuesday. According to Regina Costa with The Utility Reform Network, a nonprofit watchdog group that advocates for affordable power and phone service, the two designation requests are linked in a slight-of-hand to get out from regulations. 

If AT&T is released as the COLR, then it is no longer obligated to provide basic service. “There’s the catch,” said Costa, “They are saying they will provide California LifeLine, but only where it has an obligation. At the same time, they are asking for a release of the obligation as carrier of last resort. So, it’s really a lot of smoke and mirrors.” 

Around 190,000 AT&T California customers receive LifeLine service through Federal Lifeline and California Lifeline, according to the Public Advocates Office at the CPUC. Basic service includes elements such as Lifeline rates for eligible customers, free access to 911, operator services and Telephone Relay Service, which allows people with hearing or speech disabilities to place and receive phone calls. 

Costa says that AT&T is allowed to offer LifeLine using Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), which is a digital service that can be transmitted on either copper or fiber optic wires, but she says the company chooses not to do that. 

“So, it is being pitched as if they are getting rid of these old, antiquated lines,” Costa said. AT&T also co-owns most of the utility poles with PG&E, said Costa. “So, if you want to use the pole, you have to negotiate with AT&T.” 

The Public Advocates Office said that AT&T reported that over 579,000 residential AT&T customers subscribe to copper landlines. “However, there are over 29 million Californians in AT&T’s service territory that may be impacted if the COLR obligation is removed.” 

“As we have pursued regulatory relief for more than a decade in other states, none of our traditional landline customers have lost service as a result,” AT&T said in an email Tuesday. 

There have been a few back-and-forth revisions since the application was filed. In June, the Public Advocates Office filed a motion to dismiss an amended version. One reason, it said, was that AT&T has not named another carrier to be designated as a COLR. 

“AT&T incorrectly assumes that the presence of a provider on a map is equivalent to actual availability of voice service for customers,” the filing said. 

Finding a substitute that can provide phone service to California’s remote regions — through an infrastructure that can sustain wildfires, floods and earthquakes — is the challenge at hand for the company and policymakers. 

In Tuesday’s meeting of the CPUC, supporters seemed to argue that if AT&T had to retain its COLR obligations, it would lessen the push for broadband access. 

“Keeping up with modern technology is essential,” said one caller from Torrance. “The pandemic was an example of a dire need for broadband for remote learning and telehealth.” 

Most callers urged the commission to deny AT&T’s request. 

“Because of our statewide cost of living crisis, more older adults are having to live in rural and semi-rural areas of California,” said AARP’s David Azevedo on behalf of 3.2 million members. “These areas have some of the highest emergency risk factors in the state due to hazards such as wildfires and also have the highest risk of social isolation.” 

Patricia Gutman said she worked in emergency communications in San Francisco during 1989’s Loma Prieta earthquake. 

“We lost all cellular. We used call boxes and landlines,” Gutman said. “Conclusion — redundancy, redundancy, redundancy.” 

The Public Advocates Office says the schedule for the CPUC to make its final decision has been postponed until at least April 30, which is the deadline for other providers to express interest in becoming the COLR for one or more census block groups currently covered by AT&T.

---

Headline: Low, Simitian neck and neck in Congress primary
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/election/2024/03/20/low-simitian-neck-and-neck-in-congress-race/
Date and Time: Mar 20, 2024 11:41 AM
Summary:
Following the March 5 primary election, State Assembly member Evan Low and Santa Clara County Supervisor Joe Simitian are just a handful of votes apart as counts continue to roll in day by day. 

Election night results seemed to show Simitian with a clear second place behind  former San Jose mayor Sam Liccardo, both of who relied on name recognition and hometown support to separate from the crowded field. But vote tallies since then have narrowed, making way for Low to gain ground and throwing who will end up on November’s ballot into question. 

Voter turnout in the Bay Area was relatively low this primary election, with a noncompetitive presidential primary and few statewide competitions, besides Proposition 1, to galvanize voters. Across the state, including in both San Mateo and Santa Clara counties, ballots are still being counted and vote tallies will continue to change up until the April 12 deadline, when results are certified. Candidates will also have an opportunity to request a recount if the final results prove to be very close.

After the April deadline, the two candidates with the most votes will move on to the November general election where they will face off for Eshoo’s seat, the first time in three decades the Silicon Valley Congressional seat has been contested. 

---

Headline: Rail redesign tests Palo Alto’s relationship with Caltrain
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/03/20/rail-redesign-tests-palo-altos-relationship-with-caltrain/
Date and Time: Mar 20, 2024 10:52 AM
Summary:
The city’s menu of options — which once included more than 35 design alternatives — is down to five and staff is hoping to move ahead with engineering and environmental work on its chosen alternatives for two south Palo Alto rail crossings in the summer. But while community feedback, construction complexity and project costs will undoubtedly play a role in the final choice, so will the city’s negotiations with Caltrain, which owns the tracks and which has been reviewing the city’s plans for compliance with its own policies and engineering standards.

The two agencies have made some progress in recent weeks at resolving some of their differences. In January, Caltrain had made more than 200 comments on the city’s proposed alternatives for three rail crossings — where the Caltrain tracks cross Churchill Avenue, Meadow Drive and Charleston Road. The city’s aim at the three intersections is to build crossings that allow cars, pedestrians and bikers to cross the tracks without intersecting them to avoid long wait times and interactions with trains, especially ahead of Caltrain’s coming electrification, which should add more frequent trains to the tracks. 

In some cases, Caltrain has flagged proposed features like bike paths and tunnel entrances that encroach into Caltrain’s right of way and would need to be modified to avoid the encroachment. In others, it has required the city to design longer underpasses or wider bridges to meet Caltrain’s standards for vertical clearance and make room for maintenance workers.

This week, Caltrain announced that it is willing to relax some of its standards to accommodate the city’s preferences. Robert Barnard, Caltrain’s chief for rail design and construction, said the agency has agreed to require a vertical clearance of 15 feet and 6 inches for projects with grade separation, consistent with its historical standard but below the standard of 16 feet and 6 inches that it adopted in 2020.

The agency recognized that requiring a greater vertical clearance — the height required for trains or cars to pass safely under roads and bridges — would force the city to build longer structures, with greater impact to local roads.

“We walked through that with our operations folks, we walked through that with our safety folks, we walked through that with our engineering folks and the executive and said, we can live with 15 feet 6 inches as it’s designed,” Barnard said at the March 19 meeting of the council’s Rail Committee. “If you change that profile of the road, you’re going to increase the impact to the neighborhood. We don’t want to do that.”

On other issues, however, Caltrain was less willing to compromise. 

The viaduct alternative, which has been embraced by some in the bike community, is particularly problematic from Caltrain’s perspective. The city’s current plans call for building the supporting structures for a viaduct, where train traffic would pass over the existing road, close to Alma Street, just east of the existing tracks. This would ostensibly allow the existing tracks to function like “shoofly,” or temporary tracks during the construction period, obviating the need to suspend Caltrain service or to build new tracks to accommodate trains while the viaduct is getting built.

Caltrain’s recent review, however, concluded that some of these supporting structures would permanently encroach on Alma Street, which means the design would need to be modified to remain viable.

More worryingly for viaduct supporters, Caltrain concluded that if the city were to go that route, the existing tracks — repurposed as electrified shoofly tracks — would remain in place forever to serve Caltrain’s maintenance needs.

“If we did build those shooflies on the Caltrain right-of-way, that’s a heavy investment of public funds and we’d want to retain those for future railroad purpose. … If we were to want to build it that way, we’d want to keep them,” Barnard told the committee.

Caltrain concluded in its recent review that the city’s other possible alternatives are viable, though in some cases would need to be refined. On Churchill Avenue, the city has already selected an underpass as its preferred alternative, with the full closure (and various traffic improvements) of Churchill near the tracks as a backup option.

On Meadow and Charleston, which are being analyzed in tandem, the city’s main remaining options are an underpass for cars and a “hybrid” design that involves raising the tracks and lowering the roads. While a south Palo Alto trench remains in the mix for south Palo Alto, city staff and consultants have effectively suspended their analysis because of high costs and engineering complexities, including the need for the trench to pass through three natural creeks.

The viaduct, by contrast, is officially not in the mix at the moment. But with more people clamoring for the city to explore this option, the Rail Committee asked Caltrain to review viaducts for compliance with its standards.

Caltrain’s conclusion that the viaduct option would require significant redesign creates a setback for proponents of this option. A $6 million grant that the city had received from the Federal Railroad Administration for work on the two southern crossings requires the city to begin engineering and environmental work on the grade separations by July.

Among those who aren’t thrilled about Caltrain’s position on the viaduct is Stephen Rosenblum, a viaduct proponent who recently joined forces with a half dozen other viaduct proponents to form a group called Reconnect Palo Alto, which is advocating for improving east-west connections throughout the city. 

Rosenblum said in an interview that a key goal of grade separation should be to make it easy for everyone — drivers, bicyclists and pedestrians — to seamlessly cross the tracks.

The viaduct, he said, literally offers the easiest path. Bicyclists and pedestrians simply bike and walk under the overhead tracks without having to deal with bridges, tunnels or any of the other detours that accompany the other options. Rosenblum acknowledged that the viaduct has the highest visual impact for those who live near it but suggested that the city needs to do “what is best for the greatest number.” Having an easy connection between the east and west ends of the city is more important than aesthetics, he said.

“Now, they are assumed to have equal weight. But to us, connectivity is the highest priority,” Rosenblum said in an interview.

Rosenblum said he found Caltrain’s insistence that the shoofly tracks remain in place forever “offensive” and complained that the agency isn’t really interested in cooperating with the city.

“I don’t see any evidence of cooperation here,” Rosenblum said at the meeting, after the Caltrain presentation. “All I see are a bunch of demands that are difficult to meet and completely neglect a lot of the work that’s been done.”

Cedric de la Beaujardiere, who also supports the viaduct, said he hopes that the option will remain viable even despite Caltrain’s recent conclusions about encroachment on Alma. He urged the agency to look at other engineering solutions to reduce the encroachment and lamented its position about the need to keep the tracks in place even after a viaduct is constructed.

“I understand the desire to keep infrastructure,” de la Beaujardiere said. “But it’s also unfortunate that that sort of blocks where we might do some plantings to buffer the homes from the viaduct to help hide the structure.”

Others were taken aback by Caltrain’s position that the city would have to pay Caltrain to use its property for bike lanes or other amenities related to grade separation. Penny Ellson, a bike advocate and Caltrain rider, said she was surprised by the agency’s position around easements and payments.

“I hope Caltrain will take some time to think about what ‘partnership’ means,” Ellson said.

The latest round of reviews leaves the city council with what members acknowledge to be a menu of flawed options for its two southern crossings. The underpass option in south Palo Alto would require property acquisitions to make way for the new infrastructure, according to staff and consultants. The city would acquire the needed properties through negotiations, if possible, or eminent domain, if necessary. The council has been trying to avoid the prospect of seizing properties throughout the design process, which makes the underpass somewhat problematic.

The hybrid option is also, by most accounts, far from ideal. Council member Pat Burt, who chairs the Rail Committee and serves on the Caltrain board of directors, pointed to the visual impacts of the grade separation in San Carlos, where trains on elevated berms pass over roads.

 “The hybrid doesn’t feel like a hybrid,” Burt said. “It feels like a fully elevated berm and now that berm will be 15 feet of earth and a wall just a few feet from the back fences of all those homes.”

Council member Julie Lythcott-Haims, the council’s most enthusiastic supporter of the viaduct, also questioned Caltrain on its need to retain the tracks even after a viaduct is constructed just east of the tracks and they are no longer needed for train service.

“So how does that remotely solve one of our most urgent issues, which is that we no longer have human pedestrians, cars and bikes cross at the level of the tracks?” Lythcott-Haims asked.

Bernard said that even if the tracks remain, they would be mostly used by Caltrain for maintenance reasons and would not have regular train service like they do today.

The city council is scheduled to consider the latest information about the city’s grade separation alternatives in April and to make a final decision on which options should advance to the engineering phase on June 10, according to Chief Transportation Official Philip Kamhi.

“That would make a significant milestone in advancing our project into the next phase,” Kamhi said.

Rail Committee members acknowledged, however, that any options will leave some residents unhappy.

“Change is inevitable and important, and I want to make sure we’re making the change that the future will thank us for instead of curse us for, to the extent that’s possible,” Lythcott-Haims said. Burt agreed.

“What we want to do is make the best choices possible and get the fewest curses, not eliminate them,” Burt said. “Because every one of them will have tradeoffs and pros and cons.

“We are not going to come up with a perfect solution that’s going to make everybody happy. But hopefully we can make most of the people happy most of the time.”

---

Headline: Revised application filed for apartment tower project on Cal Ave.
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/housing/2024/03/16/revised-application-filed-for-apartment-tower-project-on-cal-ave/
Date and Time: Mar 19, 2024 04:57 PM
Summary:
The application, which Redco Development filed on March 12, makes relatively minor design revisions to the project that it unveiled last October in a preliminary proposal. Two apartments are moved from the taller tower to the shorter one and the new proposal is requesting a vesting tentative parcel map so that the commercial and residential portions of the development would be owned by different legal entities, according to the new plans.

In most respects, however, the project remains unchanged from the initial proposal. Like the prior one, it would have a total of 382 housing units. The existing Mollie Stone’s Market would be demolished and replaced with one 17-story residential tower with 192 dwellings and another seven-story building with 112 dwellings and commercial space that would be occupied by the new Mollie Stone’s.

The other residential tower would be 11 stories high. It would go up across Cambridge Avenue and would include 78 apartments.

Of the 382 total apartments in the three buildings, 77 would be designated for “low income” residents — those who make up to 80% of the area median income, according to the newly filed application. The other 305 would be offered at market rate, according to the application.

While the proposal from Redco Development is part of a wave of builder’s remedy projects that the city has received over the past year, it is exceptional in key ways. Most of the other proposals are clustered in south Palo Alto, along a stretch of El Camino Real in Ventura and Barron Park neighborhoods. One builder’s remedy project, which is being proposed by Jeff Farrar targets a site further south at 3997 Fabian Way, where he hopes to build 292 apartments, according to a preliminary application that he filed in November 2023.

The Redco Development is the only builder’s remedy project that would go up in north Palo Alto, a geographical designation that is generally defined by its relation to Oregon Expressway and Page Mill Road. The site is immediately next to the California Avenue Caltrain station and is at the heart of the city’s “second downtown,” a commercial strip that Palo Alto City Council is eager to beautify and revitalize.

Chris Friese, managing partner at Redco, told his publication in a November interview that his team felt the location is perfect for the site from an urban planning standpoint.

“There’s no better spot than this one,” Friese said.

It is also the tallest proposal of the bunch. Most of the other projects propose buildings that are between 80 and 85 feet tall, which is well above the historical height limit of 50 feet. The two towers in the Redco proposal would be 177 and 123 feet tall, respectively.

Like most recent builder’s remedy proposals, the new Redco application came with a letter from the law firm Holland & Knight LLP, which is also representing developers in the El Camino Real area. The letter argues that Palo Alto remains subject to the builder’s remedy, a provision in state code that allows developers to exceed zoning regulations in jurisdictions that do not have compliant housing plans. In Palo Alto, the city council approved its new Housing Element in May 2023 but the state Department of Housing and Community Development subsequently deemed it non-compliant and demanded further revisions.

“HCD has specifically determined that a jurisdiction is not in substantial compliance with Housing Element law until HCD finds it to be so, saying that ‘a jurisdiction does not have the authority to determine that its adopted element is in substantial compliance but may provide reasoning why HCD should making a finding of substantial compliance,'” attorneys Daniel Golub and Genna Yarkin wrote in the March 6 letter.

Accordingly, they wrote, the city council’s finding of substantial compliance is “of little consequence” given HCD’s subsequent rejection.

Palo Alto is now planning to submit its next version of the Housing Element in late spring. The revised plan will include, among other things, recently approved zoning reforms that loosen height and density limits along El Camino Real as part of a new “housing focus zone.” The city council and the Palo Alto Planning and Transportation Commission plan to discuss the Housing Element on April 15.

City Manager Ed Shikada said that staff has been consulting with the HCD on developing the new policies in hopes of getting its next submission approved.

“We don’t have any guarantee that that consultation will result in an approval,” Shikada told the council on Feb. 26. “But staff believes this significantly improves the likelihood of having approval by the HCD — by having this consultation prior to the item being brought forward for City Council for adoption, or re-adoption.”

---

Headline: Check out Joseph Eichler’s personal home this weekend before it goes up for sale
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/real-estate/2024/03/15/check-out-joseph-eichlers-personal-home-this-weekend-before-it-goes-up-for-sale/
Date and Time: Mar 19, 2024 03:15 PM
Summary:
Eichler’s one-time home at 19 Irving Ave. in Atherton will be open March 16 and 17 from 1 to 4 p.m., according to an event listing on Patch.com, posted by Realtors Eric and Janelle Boyenga of The Boyenga Team.

The home, currently listed as “off market,” has an estimated value of $6.54 million, according to Zillow, and has been listed for sale only one time before, when Eichler sold it to the current owners’ parents in 1965.

Built in Atherton’s Lindenwood neighborhood in 1951, the 3,700-square-foot midcentury modern residence is considered among the most important homes of Eichler’s career. This was his first custom-built home working with architects Robert Anshen and Steve Allen and set the groundwork for what would evolve into the California modern post-and-beam homes known as “Eichlers.”

The five-bedroom home boasts a “unique V-shaped configuration and intriguing parallelogram-themed spaces,” integrated indoor-outdoor rooms and many details immediately recognizable as “Eichler” features, including a minimalist front facade, post-and-beam construction, floor-to-ceiling windows and radiant heating, according to Eric Boyenga, an Eichler specialist and member of the Eichler Network service team.

“This is an Eichler on steroids. It’s a spectacular house,” Eric Boyenga said. “Most Eichlers were very simplistic. Everything here is built custom.”

Every room, he said, has custom-built cabinetry and storage. The outside redwood siding is continued indoors as vertical-lined siding, and there is remarkable detailing, such the triangular motifs repeated throughout the house, including on the fireplace and skylights.

The Boyengas said they are optimistic about finding a buyer who appreciates the home’s historical value and is interested in preservation rather than just the value of the land. That’s why they’re opening the home to the public before it is listed on the market. The duo hopes that by exposing the home’s unique architectural features, they will attract buyers who will want to preserve the home. 

The lots in Atherton are large and valuable, Janelle Boyenga said. A few years ago, another Eichler-built home on Irving Avenue across the street from this one was demolished to make way for a 6,444-square-foot home, which is now listed on the market for $14.95 million, according to Zillow.

“It’s sad that some people will just look at it for the land,” Eric Boyenga said.

The duo also has been talking with an architect who could work with the homebuyer on how to modernize or expand the kitchen and primary bedroom while maintaining the home’s integrity. 

“The home has seen better days,” Janelle Boyenga said. “We’ve brought it back to its roots, and it needs to find someone who appreciates midcentury modern architecture and wants to work with it.”

Many of the features found in Eichler’s Atherton home can be traced to architect Frank Lloyd Wright. During World War II, Eichler reportedly lived in a Wright-designed Usonian-style home in Hillsborough called the Bazett house, which ultimately inspired him to embark on a career building modern homes for the middle-class, according to the blog “Eichler’s Atherton Home.”

His Atherton home incorporated many of the design elements from Wright’s Bazett house, including its V-shaped configuration, indoor-outdoor orientation, built-in furniture and brick exterior, but Eichler’s home was much larger and featured more and bigger bedrooms that opened onto a landscaped yard with a swimming pool, according to the blog. 

At the time of its construction, there were few, if any houses of its kind in Atherton. Local newspapers described the home as “ultramodern.”

 “It’s a geometric house from its kitchen with twin Thermador ovens and twin refrigerators to the living room with a circular TV screen built in above the triangular hearth. Included is a putting green beside the swimming pool,” the Peninsula Times Tribune wrote in 1955. 

The home is larger and features many more embellishments than his tract houses. But according to Eric Boyega, it represents the beginning of the Eichler-style home. 

“A lot of the things he did in this house, he carried through to his later Eichler (designs). You can see the inspiration,” Eric Boyega said.   

Eichler and his wife, Lillian, lived in their Atherton home for 14 years from 1951 to 1965 before selling it to the Judson family, who still own the property. During much of this time, they reportedly used the home as a “testing site” to decide what features to introduce in Eichler’s tract homes, according to an article that appeared on Glass Box in 2014.  

Lillian would test out everything from sliding doors and built-in televisions to furniture, fabrics and floors. Based on her input, Eichler would decide which modern features to incorporate into his housing, according to the article. 

Lillian once told a reporter “I’m a guinea pig,” according to the blog on EichlerNetwork.

Eichler ended up building five model homes on Linden and Irving avenues in the Lindenwood neighborhood as part of an experimental development aimed at upper middle-class buyers.

The homes sold for between $42,500 and $49,500, according to a 1952 ad in the Peninsula Times Tribune. 

Eichler eventually abandoned his Lindenwood plans, and turned his attention to producing tract homes for the middle-class, which sold closer to $10,000 to $17,000. 

For more information about Eichler’s Atherton home or the open house, go to EichlerHomesforSale.com.  

---

Headline: Mountain View celebrates history of safe parking program at fundraising event
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/housing/2024/03/18/mountain-view-celebrates-history-of-safe-parking-program-at-fundraising-event/
Date and Time: Mar 19, 2024 03:10 PM
Summary:
Attended by about 60 people, the fundraiser brought together the “movers and shakers” of Move Mountain View, a nonprofit organization that provides safe parking sites and case management services for some of the city’s most vulnerable residents: its vehicle dwellers.

Move Mountain View began as a small pilot program in 2018. Two churches in Mountain View offered up three spaces in their lots for people living in their RVs and cars. Since then, the program has expanded to a network of nine sites that also includes Palo Alto, with about 130 safe parking spaces available for vehicle dwellers.

“I think for the first two years of existence, we saw a total of maybe under 20 individuals. And then in 2020, boom, all kinds of municipal lots opened and now Move Mountain View has four large safe parking lots and five congregational lots,” said Cheryl Thieu, a Move Mountain View board member.

From its modest beginnings, the program now serves about 300 people each year, Thieu said, adding that a substantial number of participants have since moved into more stable and supportive housing. However, as the number of participants has increased, so has the complexity of their cases. “And to be honest, our fundraising base has not expanded to match all the needs,” Thieu said.

The fundraiser breakfast was a step towards filling these gaps. But it also served as an opportunity to recognize community leaders and organizations that have contributed to the success of Move Mountain View over the years.

Brian Leong, pastor of Lord’s Grace Christian Church, provided the opening remarks and described the early history of how Move Mountain View got off the ground. Long before the safe lots opened, the idea was planted by a question that someone asked of him at a conference in 2008.

“If your church burned down tomorrow, would anybody care?” the speaker asked at the time.

The answer was no, Leong said. “Nobody would care because I knew that as a pastor of a church here in Mountain View that had been here for many years, we weren’t making an impact to the community. And probably if our church burned down, nobody would have any idea,” he said.

For the next several years, Leong contemplated the question, meeting with a group of like-minded pastors who came together in prayer seeking an answer to do something big and meaningful for the community. Eventually, Leong reached out to an elected official, Santa Clara County Supervisor Joe Simitian, asking what he and his prayer group – who represented 10,000 congregants – could do for the city and county.

Simitian proposed the idea of a safe parking lot, based on what some churches were doing in Santa Barbara. Leong was receptive to the idea, but unsure how his fellow pastors would react, he said. When he brought up the idea at their next prayer meeting, they all said yes.

Simitian, who received a special award at the event, corroborated many of these details, while adding his own recollections. “There were some state laws that made it hard to provide what really is essential in making safe parking work, which is 24/7. If folks really can’t call that place their own 24/7, it just doesn’t happen,” Simitian said.

At the time, Mountain View city officials worried that all-day safe parking operations would trigger state mobile home residency laws, and originally proposing that vehicles would have to clear out between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. every day. Special legislation, however, allowed Santa Clara County to construct and operate homeless shelters without having to follow all the rules of California’s Mobilehome Parks Act or the Mobilehome Residency Law.

With the county’s involvement, the churches could offer the safe parking sites as temporary shelters, getting around some of the state’s landlord-tenancy laws. The county also spread the word, asking cities to offer up their lots. Mountain View was an early supporter of the initiative.

“We didn’t get a whole lot of lots, but we got more than we had. And that’s why today, we have a partnership with Mountain View that serves those 133 households (or) ‘carholds.’ And essentially, it’s become one of the largest, if not the largest, safe parking provider in our county,” Simitian said.

The program, however, was not without its detractors, as described by the Rev. Eileen Altman from First Congregational Church in Palo Alto. The churches received pushback from neighbors who were concerned about having vehicle dwellers close to their homes. The City Council also was a bit hesitant at first, Altman said. But following the lead of Mountain View, Palo Alto got on board.

The collaboration between civic leaders, congregations and social service providers has garnered national attention too, as Altman has received inquiries from other ministries that would like to try something similar in their communities.

“The seeds that you are planting and we are planting together in this community can flower in other places as well,” she said.

---

Headline: Public Agenda
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-government/2024/03/15/public-agenda-15/
Date and Time: Mar 18, 2024 08:49 AM
Summary:
COUNCIL RAIL COMMITTEE … The committee plans to discuss grade separation alternatives for Churchill Avenue, Meadow Drive and Charleston Road crossings. The meeting will begin at 2:30 p.m. on Tuesday, March 19, in the Council Chambers at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 863 8814 2528.

COUNCIL FINANCE COMMITTEE … The committee plans to discuss funding levels for the Human Services Resource Allocation Process and other grant programs in the city’s general fund. The meeting will begin at 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday, March 19, in the Community Meeting Room at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 992 2730 7235.

COUNCIL RETAIL COMMITTEE … The committee plans to hear updates about improved branding in the California Avenue district, the parklet program in the downtown area and a Midtown merchants meeting. The meeting will begin at 9 a.m. on Wednesday, March 20, in the Community Meeting Room at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 858 4554 4145.

Here’s a roundup of government action this past week.

City Council (March 11)

Economy: The council approved its objectives for economic recovery in 2024. Yes: Unanimous

Council Policy and Services Committee (March 12)

Equity: The committee heard an update about the city’s race and equity initiatives, including a recent survey on the demographics of local boards and commissions. Action: None

Planning and Transportation Commission (March 13)

Density: The commission recommended revising the zoning code to make it consistent with the latest changes to the State Density Bonus Law. Yes: Unanimous

Bikes: The commission held a joint session with the Human Relations Commission to discuss a proposal from Caltrans to build bike lanes on El Camino Real. Action: None

Retail: The commission discussed strategies for reducing vacancies in the city’s commercial areas, including downtown and California Avenue. The strategy includes loosening the city’s retail-protection ordinance and relaxing restrictions on formula retail. Action: None

---

