Headline: 3 displaced by fire that damaged 2-story house in Daly City
URL: https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/3-displaced-by-fire-that-damaged-2-story-house-in-daly-city/article_cc2c84ba-f21c-11ee-9c27-bb396a50c7cb.html
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 05:50 PM
Content:


Three people were displaced by a fire that damaged a house in Daly City on Wednesday morning, according to the North County Fire Authority.

Firefighters responded at 9:14 a.m. to a residential structure fire on San Juan Avenue and arrived to find flames and smoke coming from the first-floor of a two-story home.

Crews were able to extinguish the fire and confirmed all residents were able to get out of the uninjured. The American Red Cross is assisting the displaced residents, fire officials said.

The cause of the fire is under investigation, but the North County Fire Authority in a press release said authorities “have not ruled out portable extension cords as being the cause.”
AISummary:

Firefighters responded at 9:14 a.m. to a residential structure fire on San Juan Avenue and arrived to find flames and smoke coming from the first-floor of a two-story home. The American Red Cross is assisting the displaced residents, fire officials said. The cause of the fire is under investigation, but the North County Fire Authority in a press release said authorities “have not ruled out portable extension cords as being the cause.” The fire damaged a house in Daly City.

---

Headline: San Mateo County Death Notices —  April 2, 2024, to April32, 2024
URL: https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/san-mateo-county-death-notices-april-2-2024-to-april32-2024/article_403a0632-f1d9-11ee-9dc8-77aa46edf4ce.html
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 05:00 PM
Content:


The following are names of those recorded deceased in San Mateo County on 4/2/24 to 4/3/24:

Julio Ayala, 104, Burlingame

Johnny Dominguez, 47, Daly City

Martha Barrientos, 94, South San Francisco

Mustafa Mohammed, 81, Daly City

Jesus Salvador Contreras, 44, Menlo Park

Elvira Co, 65

Source: County of San Mateo Office of the Coroner
AISummary:

The names of those recorded deceased in San Mateo County on 4/2/24 to 4/3/24: Julio Ayala, 104, Burlingame. Martha Barrientos, 94, South San Francisco.Mustafa Mohammed, 81, Daly City. Jesus Salvador Contreras, 44, Menlo Park. Elvira Co, 65, San Jose. John Dominguez, 47, Daly city. Martha Barriento, 94. John Peralta, 47.

---

Headline: Silicon Valley water district sues one of its directors
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/santa-clara-county/2024/04/03/silicon-valley-water-district-sues-one-of-its-directors/
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 04:18 PM
Content:


The region’s largest taxpayer-funded water supplier is suing one of its own board directors weeks after they censured her.

Santa Clara Valley Water District officials announced they plan to file a lawsuit against Director Rebecca Eisenberg at the March 26 board meeting, but did not provide further details. Eisenberg’s colleagues censured her last month for unauthorized removal of documents relating to an investigation into her behavior. The agency was looking into claims that Eisenberg fostered a hostile work environment and made sexist remarks. Eisenberg made the same accusations against district officials.

Eisenberg said she notified employees of her intent to take the documents and that other directors, as well as Valley Water CEO Rick Callender and district counsel Carlos Orellana, had their own copies.

“Suing me for documents they already have in their possession is a recipe for failure by an agency who has zero concern for public interest,” Eisenberg told San José Spotlight. “Once again Valley Water is using ratepayer funds as if it is their personal piggybank — the exact behavior that has earned Valley Water its reputation as the ‘golden spigot’ for decades.”

Callender declined to comment. A Valley Water spokesperson could not say on Wednesday whether the lawsuit had been filed. On March 26, Eisenberg tweeted that the lawsuit seeks to claw back the records she took.

The ongoing controversy comes two months after San José Spotlight first reported that Eisenberg took the documents from Valley Water’s San Jose office as part of the agency’s $587,497 probe against her. Investigators substantiated nine out of 25 total complaints accusing Eisenberg of harassing or offensive conduct from Callender, Orellana and other employees.

Eisenberg ruffled feathers on the water board almost immediately after unseating her predecessor Gary Kremen in November 2022, who faced allegations of his own that included workplace bullying. Eisenberg blasted Valley Water for failing to hold Kremen accountable and make changes after an investigation found Kremen violated district policies when he bullied, verbally assaulted and threatened district workers.

In early 2023, Valley Water officials said they received numerous workplace complaints accusing Eisenberg of gender discrimination and making inappropriate comments. Documents obtained by San José Spotlight alleged Eisenberg blamed the region’s infrastructure issues — such as flooding — on men who “love to build things” using concrete.

The agency’s expensive investigation was made public in February. It also details an incident in June last year, where Eisenberg told Board Chair Nai Hsueh that “English isn’t your first language so I want to make sure you understand.” The comment came after Hsueh told Eisenberg she didn’t know what the Latin term ad hominem meant, which “shocked” Eisenberg.

Eisenberg told investigators she was not demeaning Hsueh on the basis of race or national origin, but instead was “accommodating (Hsueh’s) language barrier,” the report said.

Eisenberg also leveled eight accusations of discrimination, harassment, abusive conduct or retaliation against Callender, Orellana and the district, though the agency’s hired investigators determined there wasn’t sufficient evidence to support her claims.

Eisenberg said the investigation is just retaliation by Callender and Orellana in response to concerns she raised about sexism at the agency.

The board of directors, including Eisenberg, was allowed to view 2,000 confidential pages related to the investigation — including supporting documents and interviews with employees — in a secure room near the Valley Water clerk’s office. Members could not take photos or copies of the sensitive materials, and were told the documents couldn’t leave the room.

“I never denied taking home this print-out because the CEO has his own copy and even has a digital copy. So does the chair. So does the district counsel. They all have both digital and printed versions. I only have a print-out,” Eisenberg said. “So why exactly am I not entitled to have the exact thing that they have in their possession?”
AISummary:

Santa Clara Valley Water District officials announced they plan to file a lawsuit against Director Rebecca Eisenberg. Eisenberg’s colleagues censured her last month for unauthorized removal of documents relating to an investigation into her behavior. The agency was looking into claims that Eisenberg fostered a hostile work environment and made sexist remarks. Valley Water officials said they received numerous workplace complaints accusing Eisenberg of gender discrimination and making inappropriate comments. The ongoing controversy comes two months after San José Spotlight first reported Eisenberg took the documents.

---

Headline: Burlingame Bayfront development gets OK
URL: https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/burlingame-bayfront-development-gets-ok/article_14290a88-f167-11ee-8f5b-876d1917ac77.html
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 03:50 PM
Content:


A large-scale development at 1200 to 1340 Old Bayshore Highway was approved by the Burlingame City Council, a substantial step for developer DivcoWest’s construction of three 11-story buildings, two 10-story parking garages and a refurbished Bay Trail at the location. 

The City Council motioned unanimously, with Vice Mayor Emily Beach recused due to a conflict of interest, to approve the project’s environmental impact report, water supply assessment, commercial design review and special permits for building height. 

Councilmembers also introduced the first reading of an ordinance for a 20-year development agreement with DivcoWest. 

The project would see the creation of a biotech campus along with 5.5 acres of open space at the 12-acre location, which is currently occupied by a mix of retail and office space including Max’s Restaurant and a Holiday Inn Express. 

The multiple public benefits — including a 20-foot wide Bay Trail segment that connects two previously detached portions, a public plaza, two cafes and the developer’s commitment of $3.5 million to Burlingame’s Broadway grade separation project — were espoused by both councilmembers and developers throughout the April 1 meeting. 

Mayor Donna Colson also pointed to the sea-level rise and erosion protection plan, which will provide the Burlingame community as a whole greater security against the impacts of climate change for the next 100 years, she said. 

“Not for 25 years, not for 30, not for 50, but for 100. One-hundred years of sea-level rise adaptation built into this project and the taxpayers are not paying a penny — it is all being done with the developer, and the work that’s going on up there,” Colson said. 

DivcoWest will now seek a number of required additional state agency approvals, including the Bay Conservation and Development Commission, Virginia Calkins, DivcoWest director of Environmental, Social and Governance, said.

“The meeting last night was the culmination of a very lengthy collaborative process. We’re proud of a design that reflects the priorities of the community,” she said Tuesday. 

However, some community members, including Mark Zuckerman, felt the development didn’t pay enough attention to traffic concerns it would bring to Burlingame. 

“My interest after living here for 35 years is dealing with the traffic. This project seems to me a nightmare, coming into Burlingame — especially coming from the south — getting across the bridge is going to be difficult and leaving going north up to San Francisco, I see that being horrible traffic. Even with construction of a new entryway that could take years,” he said. 

Traffic analysis results found that implementation, which includes redoing the nearby Highway 101 intersection for signal optimization, would actually improve the level of service at the Broadway-Rollins intersection at peak hour. 

Councilmember Ricardo Ortiz emphasized that although residents might experience some disruption due to the construction, development isn’t in downtown. 

“There will be disruption … [but] I always like to remind people this is all happening close to the Bay. It’s not happening near our neighborhoods, it’s not happening near our homes,” he said. 

Ortiz’s only qualm is the development timing, which splits construction into two 10-year time frames. The construction would occur in stages, Calkins said, with the first phase including the center building and southern parking garage, as well as a commitment to Bay Trail installation. The second phase would include the southern portion and the third, the northern portion.

Residents, as well as the Burlingame Planning Commission — which approved the project on March 11 — also expressed concerns around the project’s allotment of only 40 parking spots for community member use of the 3,400 spaces. 

DivcoWest expanded parking spaces to 40 stalls permanently open to the public from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. and at least 210 additional public stalls open from 6-10 p.m. Monday to Friday and 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. on weekends based on this feedback, Calkins said during the meeting.

Councilmember Michael Brownrigg said that he felt the project, which has been in the works for years, is a thoughtful blend of community insights. 

“Land is really precious in the Bay Area. It’s really precious — God isn’t making more of it and [Bay Conservation and Development Commission] isn’t letting us fill in the Bay,” he said. “There’s no more of it, and when we decide to redevelop a piece of land we ought to make sure we get the most use out of it that we can in the best possible way, and I believe this project strikes that balance.”

Note to readers: This story has been changed to clarify that Beach's absence from the vote was a recusal due to conflict of interest. 
AISummary:

The Burlingame City Council approved three 11-story buildings, two 10-story parking garages and a refurbished Bay Trail. The project would see the creation of a biotech campus along with 5.5 acres of open space at the 12-acre location. The City Council motioned unanimously, with Vice Mayor Emily Beach recused due to a conflict of interest, to approve the project’s environmental impact report, water supply assessment, commercial design review and special permits for building height.

---

Headline: Palo Alto’s rideshare program at a crossroads as funding expires
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/04/03/palo-altos-rideshare-program-at-a-crossroads-as-funding-dwindles/
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 09:00 AM
Content:


When Palo Alto officials voted in 2020 to shut down the city’s free shuttle service, their goal was to both save money and to come up with a fresh vision for a program whose best days had passed.

The shuttle, which in its final iteration features two fixed bus routes, was losing ridership even before the pandemic made people rethink public transportation. Each of its last four years saw a decline of usage, with the number of trips dropping from about 150,000 in 2016 to around 100,000 in 2019.

The city’s replacement program, Palo Alto Link, seems to be on a different trajectory. Seen as the modern, nimble alternative to the Palo Alto Shuttle, Palo Alto Link premiered in March 2023 and has seen solid ridership since then, said Nathan Baird, a transportation planning manager in the city’s Office of Transportation. Composed of six Tesla electric vehicles and three Toyota Sienna hybrids, Palo Alto Link is the city’s answer to Uber and Lyft, except it’s far cheaper and it doesn’t extend beyond the city’s borders.

According to data from the Office of Transportation, Palo Alto Link saw 3,011 riders in its first month of existence and 4,647 in February 2024. Its busiest month was August 2023, when there were 5,348 riders.

Most users share a vehicle with other riders, according to Baird. The program has been averaging about 3.1 riders per vehicle service hour, up from 2.7 riders per hour when the program began. The busiest time for the service is in its first and last hours of daily operations, he said, which often increases wait times for users.

“We’ve steadily been eking out good efficiency, but you have the decrease in service quality in the 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. hours,” Baird said.

Yet despite these promising figures, Palo Alto Link is now at a crossroads and its fate is uncertain. So far, the program has been fueled by a $2 million grant from the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority that is set to expire in October. The funding has been critical for the city’s efforts to keep fares well below those of other rideshare options. It costs most people $3.50 to use the service. For seniors, low-income individual people with disabilities and youths, the fare is $1.

The loss of grant funding creates a quandary for the city council, which will have to figure out in the next two months whether to keep the service running on the city’s dime or to pull the plug. That question will ultimately be answered in June, when the council adopts its budget for the next year.

During its April 1 discussion, most council members indicated that they favor keeping the service in place, though it may look different in its next iteration. One option proposed by staff would extend its hours, which are currently limited to 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday. Chief Transportation Official Philip Kamhi said that as part of an effort to support Caltrain commuters, the city could expand these hours to 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.

“We’re thinking a lot about that connection to transit as well as part of the service expansion,” Kamhi told the council.

While the VTA is footing most of the bill, Palo Alto Link has also received a $38,000 contribution from Stanford Research Park in exchange for fare-free rides for employees. Kamhi said that as part of an effort to retain the service, staff is talking to Palo Alto Unified School District and Stanford Shopping Center to gauge interest in similar partnerships.

While the response from the community has been generally positive — the average rating from riders is 4.8 out of 5 — it’s not clear whether popularity will be enough to save the program. Council member Pat Burt said the challenge is to take a program that has been paid for by other agencies and make it sustainable.

“It’s pretty easy to see that if you give something away that’s of significant value and you give it away for virtually free, people will like that,” said Burt, who as chair of the council’s Finance Committee will have a leading role in shaping the program’s future. “That’s not a hard deal — to come up with ways to have people like what you give them.”

Most of his colleagues were bullish about the future of Palo Alto Link. While council member Greg Tanaka wondered why the city can’t just partner with an existing rideshare provider, everyone else supported not just keeping the service but growing it.

Council member Julie Lythcott-Haims lauded Palo Alto Link for helping people like her mother, who she said was one of the first people who used the service. She lauded the fact that residents can order the service via phone calls as well as through an app, which helps seniors who may be less comfortable with technology.

Now, Lythcott-Haims wants to direct the service toward another demographic: local youth. Last month, the city began to offer teenagers free rides on Palo Alto Link to specific destinations, including the Mitchell Park Community Center, allcove Palo Alto, Cubberley Community Center and all public libraries. As the city considers the program’s future, Lythcott-Haims suggested extending it to later hours or even to the weekend to accommodate teenagers.

Mayor Greer Stone was also open to the idea of having more Palo Alto Link hours for local youth, particularly on Friday nights or even Saturdays. He encouraged staff to partner with the school district to offer subsidized rides to local students and suggested that the city should do more to promote the city’s recent effort to connect teenagers to popular local destinations.

“It’s a great service. It’s a wonderful program,” Stone said. “When I’m out and talking to people about it, they’re very excited about it. But I’m concerned that not many know that they have free access.”
AISummary:

Palo Alto Link is the city’s answer to Uber and Lyft. It premiered in March 2023 and has seen solid ridership since then. The program has been fueled by a $2 million grant from the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority. The city council will have to figure out in the next two months whether to keep the service running or to pull the plug. It costs most people $3.50 to use the service; for seniors, low-income individual people with disabilities and youths, the fare is $1.

---

Headline: Thousands of upset Santa Clara County nurses strike
URL: https://www.mv-voice.com/santa-clara-county/2024/04/03/thousands-of-upset-santa-clara-county-nurses-strike/
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 08:45 AM
Content:


By B. Sakura Cannestra at San José Spotlight

Dozens of nurses filled the street in front of O’Connor Hospital in San Jose for a three-day walkout over higher wages and working conditions.

The Registered Nurses Professional Association (RNPA) went on strike yesterday and will stay out until Thursday at Santa Clara County’s three public hospitals — Santa Clara Valley Medical Center (VMC), O’Connor and St. Louise — after the union and county hit an impasse over wage increases and relocating nurses for temporary assignments to adjust for patient volume. A tentative agreement has been reached on other key terms including workplace safety, the county said in a news release.

The mediator’s proposal suggested a 13% pay raise over the next 3 1/2 years, but the union has asked for a 15% increase over the same time frame. County and RNPA leadership both claim the other party has walked away from the bargaining table. The union represents more than 3,000 nurses.

The other sticking point about reassigning nurses to different hospitals in the system will not work because the hospitals are too disjointed, the nurses union said. That contradicts county leaders’ recent claims that the system has been thriving since the 2019 purchase of St. Louise and O’Connor hospitals.

Milae Tol, RNPA representative and O’Connor Hospital nurse, said reassignment issues can sometimes be as fundamental as proper wound care. She said turning a patient to inspect their body and skin is different at O’Connor than VMC. VMC has a spinal cord injury ICU, and turning someone with such an injury requires a different technique.

“We had a lot of asks that we let go of because eventually, it came down to that temporary work location,” Tol told San José Spotlight. “I would need training and they really weren’t allowing us to add language like that to the proposal.”

The county has brought in about 1,000 travel nurses to continue operating the three hospitals during the strike, according to County Executive James Williams. He added that several hundred RNPA nurses have been deemed essential and will continue working during the strike. The travel nurses have cost the county more than $20 million.

“Our commitment is to minimize any impact on patient health care, that’s why we brought folks in,” Williams said at a news conference Tuesday. “We know that the services that are provided through the county health system are lifesaving essential services.”

Greta Hutchinson, a nurse who returned to O’Connor in 2021, has worked on and off at the hospital since 1995. She said having a nurse who is unfamiliar with hospital procedures and policies, such as where certain equipment is stored, can be “scary” for medical workers and patients.

“If they built up a float team and hired nurses to staff a float team, then probably we would be more open to saying, ‘Yeah hire some young people to do that,’” Hutchinson told San José Spotlight. “They get experience in different units. But if you want to take me and float me to the different units, I wouldn’t want to do it. I’d opt out.”

The county said in a news release it would provide safeguards to reassigning nurses by moving them to departments where they have been trained, and giving them the ability to decline an assignment by calling out. They would also receive an additional $50 and be placed at locations within 20 miles from their regular hospital.

The strike comes at a trying time for one of California’s largest public hospital systems. In February, Regional Medical Center informed county leaders of plans to close its cardiac and stroke centers, raising questions about how the county’s other hospitals will shoulder the demand and sustain those critical services.

The county’s $250 million shortfall going into the 2024-25 fiscal year will force hard decisions regarding service cuts and program funding.

County leaders have also said union nurses received between 30% and 42% compounded salary increases since 2020, but nurses said those increases were compared to 2019 salaries and not enough to match current competitive wages.

“That was just a realignment to bring us back up to 2019 levels,” Amy English, RNPA representative and O’Connor Hospital nurse, told San José Spotlight. “Meanwhile, all the nurses in the Bay Area have closed their contracts again, and they’re again well beyond us.”
AISummary:

The Registered Nurses Professional Association (RNPA) went on strike yesterday and will stay out until Thursday at Santa Clara County’s three public hospitals. The union and county hit an impasse over wage increases and relocating nurses to adjust for patient volume. A tentative agreement has been reached on other key terms including workplace safety, the county said in a news release. The county has brought in about 1,000 travel nurses to continue operating the three hospitals during the strike, according to County Executive James Williams.

---

Headline: 1 vote separates Low and Simitian in San Mateo and Santa Clara counties
URL: https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/1-vote-separates-low-and-simitian-in-san-mateo-and-santa-clara-counties/article_14defc12-f167-11ee-b96d-8ff66154df91.html
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 05:00 AM
Content:


Evan Low

Joe Simitian

In California’s District 16 congressional race, Evan Low is now leading Joe Simitian by one vote for the second-place position as of April 2. 

Low holds 30,249 votes and Simitian is at 30,248 — per voting results released at 4 p.m. in San Mateo County and at 5:23 p.m. in Santa Clara County. Former San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo is sitting in a comfortable first place by around 8,000 votes. 

April 2 marked the last day that challenged ballots — which have been deemed ineligible for some reason, typically an issue with a voter’s signature — can be “cured,” allowing voters the opportunity to re-legitimize their vote. 

Santa Clara County has 550 challenged ballots remaining and San Mateo County has 405 remaining as of April 2, elections officials said. San Mateo County will be releasing another update on election numbers before 4:30 p.m. April 3, Jim Irizarry, assistant chief elections officer, said. 

If a campaign chooses to request a recount, it will have five days after April 4 — when elections results are officially certified by counties — to do so. Election results will be officially certified by the state April 12. 

To request a machine recount in Santa Clara County would cost $16,840 a day and take approximately five days, totaling $84,200, Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters spokesperson Michael Borja said. A manual recount, with ballots tallied by hand, would cost $32,000 a day and take approximately 10 days, totaling $320,000. 

In San Mateo County, setup for counting one precinct costs $3,250 and $1,100 to set up for batch counting, regardless of if the count selected is manual or by machine, Irizarry said. 

To use all seven machine scanners costs $4,550 per day. A manual count costs $2,600 per one “precinct board” — a group of elections official counters assigned to count one precinct — and $1,050 per additional board, making the cost of a recount highly dependent on selected scope and size, Irizarry said. 

“Sometimes it takes a while for democracy to work. This is one of those times. That means counting and verifying all of the votes. Every single one of them,” Simitian said in a statement. “The election offices in both counties have been verifying voter signatures over the past few weeks to make sure that every vote that can be counted, will be counted. Right now we’re waiting to hear from them.”

Low did not respond to request for comment.
AISummary:

Evan Low is now leading Joe Simitian by one vote for the second-place position as of April 2. Former San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo is sitting in a comfortable first place by around 8,000 votes. April 2 marked the last day that challenged ballots — which have been deemed ineligible for some reason, typically an issue with a voter’s signature — can be “cured,” allowing voters the opportunity to re-legitimize their vote. Election results will be officially certified by the state April 12.

---

Headline: Redwood City to study business tax reform
URL: https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/redwood-city-to-study-business-tax-reform/article_15531eb2-f167-11ee-bd8d-37d28b4b0558.html
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 04:45 AM
Content:


Results from a poll conducted to gauge Redwood City residents’ priorities would support a new business license tax that collected a percentage of gross receipts, which would grow as they made more money, the City Council learned this week. 

The survey, which was conducted by public opinion research agency Godbe Research, also showed the majority of residents may not support a property transfer tax.

The council voted 6-1, with Mayor Jeff Gee as the sole opponent, to continue with research toward changing its business license tax to a gross receipts model. The measure could be considered on the November ballot. The council opted to no longer move forward with a study on a property transfer tax because of a lack of community support. 

The hypothetical business license reform measure states that between 0.1% and 0.3% of gross receipts from businesses to generate approximately $13.5 million annually. Around 60% of survey respondents said that if the measure preserves essential city services indicated as priorities, they would “probably” or “definitely” vote in support.

The gross receipts tax model aims to support and reflect the needs of small businesses, as the tax will grow as a business makes more money from its sales. The current model is based on the number of employees but has a cap, so smaller companies ultimately pay a disproportionate tax amount. 

“Business tax has not been updated since we had sideburns and bell bottoms and avocado green refrigerators in the 1970s,” Councilmember Kaia Eakin said. “It’s time to update because we want to be equitable and we want to help small businesses.”

The poll gauged 603 Redwood City residents and measured residents’ satisfaction with city services as well as how they would feel about proposed legislative measures related to such city services. 

Many residents chimed in on the issue with 152 public comments emailed in ahead of the meeting. Though they were not read aloud during the meeting, Councilmember Chris Sturken emphasized they would be taken into account toward the council’s decision-making process. 

“In the event that anyone is concerned about their communication not being read during the council meeting, it is in the record and we just want to make sure that we end on time so that staff and members of the public present and my colleagues can get home safely.”

With such a large number of public comments on the motion, Eakin said it was important to remind residents that a final decision on the tax change was not being voted upon, just further study of the subject. 

“I want to emphasize that we’re studying ways to recalibrate some of our fees and taxes,” Eakin said. “We’re not deciding to do anything tonight. If we decide after study to do something, it’s the voters who will decide, we don’t decide. I want to reassure everyone, the community, ultimately, the decision is theirs.”

Gee said that he would not support specifically the gross receipts model because he felt he didn’t have enough information on exactly how it would be applied to business owners. 

“We really need to engage heavily with our business partners. … If we do something that takes away from [profits], if we do it intentionally that’s one thing, but if we do it without understanding the consequences, that’s something else,’’ Gee said. “We really need to do a lot more work to look at not only gross receipts but define it and who it applies to and how it applies.” 

His concern was primarily based on the city being in a major deficit. 

“If businesses leave, I can tell you one thing, the hole will be bigger,” Gee said. “If we’re struggling right now, just imagine if some of our major employers left and how big that hole would be.” 

The rest of the council maintained the motion as is and said it allowed room for any change needed in the future.

“When we do our outreach and we go to all the businesses, if we hear something different and hear additional information on a possible other method, I would like to believe that that would be brought back to us at a later date for us to consider,” Councilmember Diane Howard said.
AISummary:

The council voted 6-1, with Mayor Jeff Gee as the sole opponent, to continue with research toward changing its business license tax to a gross receipts model. The council opted to no longer move forward with a study on a property transfer tax because of a lack of community support. The hypothetical business license reform measure states that between 0.1% and 0.3% of gross receipts from businesses to generate approximately $13.5 million annually. Around 60% of survey respondents said that if the measure preserves essential city services indicated as priorities, they would “probably” or “definitely” vote in support.

---

Headline: San Carlos housing goals on track
URL: https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/san-carlos-housing-goals-on-track/article_aecc620e-f15f-11ee-8395-f308d7e16f38.html
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 04:30 AM
Content:


San Carlos has had a slow start progressing toward its housing development goal in its first year of the new state-mandated housing cycle, according to a presentation to the City Council last week.

Still, planners say they were set to present the city’s new goals to the state by deadline. Cities are required by the California Department of Housing and Community Development to submit an annual report of the progress made in regards to the Housing Element this week. Planning Manager Lisa Porras said she and staff were in contact with the department and received feedback on preliminary submissions of the report and expected last week to be able to deliver the finalized version by the deadline this week. 

Mayor John Dugan believes San Carlos will be one of the few that will submit its annual report to the state HCD in a timely manner. 

“We’re out in front and, actually, I believe we’re well ahead of our peers that have not yet grappled with the zoning implementation of their housing element,” Dugan said. “I think that puts us in good stead.”

Porras confirmed that she believes the city should be able to submit their report on time.

“We aren’t expecting any further questions to address,” she said.

Porras presented to the council on the city’s Regional Housing Needs Allocation goal, which is set at 2,735 development units to be completed by 2031. 

San Carlos is currently tracking 46 units to date, less than 2% toward its goal. Of those, 45 were accessory dwelling units. 

“Although this is a modest start, the good news is we are holding steady in our strong trend of continuing to permit anywhere between 20 and 30 new ADUs each calendar year,” Porras said. 

A development is considered in the goal tracker when it has been issued building permits, not necessarily when the project is officially complete, which is defined by a certificate of occupancy allowing for residents to move in. 

Affordable units, or those below market-rate, are expected to account for more than half of the city’s RHNA goal for the entire eight-year cycle. All 46 units currently considered in the tracker are above moderate income level, or market-rate housing. 

However, the city did issue planning approvals for 410 new units. Of those 410 units, 47 are for very-low income, 33 are low-income and one is above-moderate. Porras said these can be expected to be counted toward the city’s RHNA goals next year.
AISummary:

San Carlos has had a slow start progressing toward its housing development goal in its first year of the new state-mandated housing cycle. Cities are required by the California Department of Housing and Community Development to submit an annual report of the progress made in regards to the Housing Element. San Carlos is currently tracking 46 units to date, less than 2% toward its goal. Of those, 45 were accessory dwelling units. All 46 units currently considered in the tracker are above moderate income level, or market-rate housing.

---

Headline: Burlingame hotel's Kim Kardashian look-alike death trial moves to trial
URL: https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/burlingame-hotels-kim-kardashian-look-alike-death-trial-moves-to-trial/article_a48165b4-f15b-11ee-932d-4327c7c340a0.html
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 04:15 AM
Content:


The case against a woman accused of administering a fatal cosmetic procedure to a woman who was famous online for being a Kim Kardashian look-alike is moving to trial, San Mateo County District Attorney Steve Wagstaffe said.

Vivian Gomez, 50, is charged with felony involuntary manslaughter and practicing medicine without a license resulting in death. She didn’t take the DA’s Office’s plea deal offer of seven years in prison at maximum, Wagstaffe said. 

Gomez allegedly flew in from Florida and performed an illegal gluteal silicone injection April 19 to Christina Gourkani, 34, who was a Kim Kardashian look-alike with an online following, at the Burlingame Marriott Hotel. Shortly after the procedure, Gourkani felt ill and her fiancé called 911. She was transported to Mills-Peninsula Medical Center in Burlingame where she died the next day of respiratory failure and pulmonary embolism, Wagstaffe said.

Jury trial has been confirmed for June 28.
AISummary:

Gourkani, 34, died after an illegal gluteal injection on April 19. She was a fan of the Kim Kardashian look-alike. The trial is set for June 28. She is charged with practicing medicine without a license. She faces a maximum of seven years in prison if found guilty of the charge. The case has been referred to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for review. For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.

---

Headline: San Mateo County police reports: April 3, 2024
URL: https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/san-mateo-county-police-reports-april-3-2024/article_70d4d5aa-f158-11ee-97c6-978342e3f8ed.html
Date and Time: Apr 03, 2024 04:00 AM
Content:


What an animal — Someone possibly entered through a pet door and stole miscellaneous items from a house on Washington Avenue in Redwood City; it was reported 10:54 a.m. Friday, March 29.

SAN MATEO

Stolen vehicle. Someone stole a vehicle on South Norfolk Street; it was reported 10:19 p.m. Saturday, March 23.

Theft. Two men stole items worth approximately $30,000 from the mall; it was reported 7:46 p.m. Saturday, March 23.

Theft. Someone stole a back license plate at the intersection of Flores Street and West 25th Avenue; it was reported 4:27 p.m. Saturday, March 23.

Armed robbery. A man armed with a gun stole $180 in cash from a store at the intersection of Tilton Avenue and North Fremont Street. His accomplice also hit an employee over the head; it was reported 11:51 p.m. Saturday, March 23.

REDWOOD CITY

Battery. A man said he was assaulted and threatened on Broadway by someone no longer on the scene; it was reported 9:47 p.m. Sunday, March 31.

Grand theft. Someone stole a catalytic converter on Jones Court; it was reported 3:31 p.m. Sunday, March 31.

Battery. A man was hit in a street fight on Roosevelt Avenue; it was reported 1:45 a.m. Sunday, March 31.

Burglary. Someone saw two men break into a vehicle on Veterans Boulevard; it was reported 12:15 a.m. Sunday, March 31.
AISummary:

Theft: Two men stole items worth approximately $30,000 from the mall. Vehicle: Someone stole a vehicle on South Norfolk Street; it was reported 10:19 p.m. Saturday, March 23. Armed robbery: A man armed with a gun stole $180 in cash from a store at the intersection of Tilton Avenue and North Fremont Street. Vehicle burglary: Someone saw two men break into a car on Veterans Boulevard.Battery. A man said he was assaulted and threatened on Broadway by someone no longer on the scene.

---

Headline: San Mateo County Death Notices —  April 1, 2024, to April 2, 2024
URL: https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/san-mateo-county-death-notices-april-1-2024-to-april-2-2024/article_4f0b7dac-f117-11ee-9d3e-237535c95114.html
Date and Time: Apr 02, 2024 05:00 PM
Content:


The following are names of those recorded deceased in San Mateo County on 4/1/24 to 4/2/24:

Jeff Ong, 71, South San Francisco

Joseph Bisaccio Sr, 75

Stephanie Selick, 34, San Mateo

Raymond Drexler, 60, Daly City

Natalie Vacchieri, 59, Redwood City

Source: County of San Mateo Office of the Coroner
AISummary:

The names of those recorded deceased in San Mateo County on 4/1/24 to 4/2/24: Jeff Ong, 71, South San Francisco. Joseph Bisaccio Sr, 75. Raymond Drexler, 60. Natalie Vacchieri, 59. Stephanie Selick, 34. Joseph Bresciano Sr, 65. Raymond Bresco Sr, 70. Natalie Bresca Sr, 66. Natalie Vachieri, 58. Breschi Sr, 69.

---

Headline: Palo Alto council seeks more El Camino improvements as part of bike lane project
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/04/02/palo-alto-council-seeks-more-el-camino-improvements-as-part-of-bike-lane-project/
Date and Time: Apr 02, 2024 08:50 AM
Content:


The Palo Alto City Council sent a strong signal on Monday that it is willing to swap parking spaces for bikeways all along El Camino Real, a project that could launch as early as this summer.

In doing so, however, council members also insisted that El Camino get furnished with additional safety improvements such as “No turn on red” signs, bike boxes and better speed enforcement. The state Department of Transportation, which is spearheading the bikeway project as part of its broader effort to repave El Camino, will consider these additional measures over the next two or three months.

The council’s 6-1 vote, with Council member Greg Tanaka dissenting, wasn’t the type of ironclad commitment to El Camino bikeways that Caltrans officials were hoping for. The state agency, which has jurisdiction over the thoroughfare, had requested that the council pass a resolution officially removing parking spaces along El Camino, which Mountain View and Los Altos have already done. The council stopped well short of that.

The April 1 vote did, however, create a path for getting to the final decision in a fairly short period of time. It directed Caltrans to return with additional safety measures based on the “safe systems” approach, which aims to reduce the number and severity of collisions. While Caltrans officials are exploring those improvements, city officials will form their own task force to explore ways to make intersections along El Camino safer and to consider other impacts of the bikeway project, including the displacement of vehicle dwellers and the loss of on-street parking that some area businesses depend on.

An overwhelming majority of the speakers who addressed the council at the April 1 hearing strongly favored the El Camino bike lanes. More than 35 project proponents, including members of the Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition, urged the council to support the Caltrans project, which they argued would make biking safer.

Tom Oey, a bike advocate, alluded to the victims of the two bike fatalities that occurred in or near Palo Alto in February, one on Embarcadero Road and another on Foothill Expressway in Los Altos Hills. The community cannot afford to delay progress on making El Camino safer, he said.

“We need much better bike facilities everywhere and especially on El Camino. Just do it!” Oey said.

Others argued that bike lanes would help businesses by making storefronts and restaurants more accessible to people without cars. Maria Rimmel, who lives on Homer Avenue, said she and her fiance don’t own a car and exclusively bike, walk and take transit. She was among the more than 30 speakers who advocated for the bike lanes at the meeting.

“If a business is not safely accessible by bike we’re probably not going to go,” Rimmel said.

Not everyone was as excited about the bike lanes. Galen Fletcher, owner of Sundance the Steakhouse, characterized the bike lanes as an existential threat to his business, which has been on El Camino and Leland Avenue since 1974. He said his business needs about 25 parking spots. Without these spots, customers will pass up on his business and go to other restaurants that have adequate parking.

“To have my business suffer and quite possibly fold as a result of unintended consequences of providing a bike lane on a highway that’s arguably not safe for bikes even with a bike lane is tragic,” Fletcher said.

For Caltrans, the bikeways are a needed addition to the paving project as part of the agency’s recent pivot toward a “complete streets” philosophy, which aims to accommodate all modes of road users. It’s also a matter of safety, according to Nick Saleh, District 4 division chief with Caltrans. According to a Caltrans analysis, the segment of El Camino along Palo Alto and a portion of Mountain View had 33 collisions between 2016 and 2020, triggering the need for bikeways as a safety measure.

“We had 33 crashes and we need to address those crashes,” Saleh said. “By implementing the bikeway, we would reduce the crashes and incidents of the bikes riding against the flow.”

Not everyone, however, is convinced that the project would reduce collisions. At prior hearings, planning commissioners and community members noted that Palo Alto has other north-south connections that are much safer for cyclists than El Camino, most notably Park Boulevard and Bryant Street. Council member Pat Burt questioned whether the bikeways would actually improve safety, absent additional improvements.

“If we create the false sense of security without providing actual security, then we have a greater risk perhaps rather than a lesser one,” Burt said.

And a recent report from consultants Fehr & Peers argued the Caltrans plan doesn’t account for the dangers of riding alongside cars going at high speeds on El Camino. Vice Chair Ed Lauing concurred.

“I am concerned that we are with the project as presented bringing more bikes to a high-traffic, high-speed thoroughfare,” Lauing said. “And just putting some green paint on the ground isn’t really moving the needle on bike safety.”

Others were more sanguine about the prospect of El Camino bike lanes. Council members Vicki Veenker, Tanaka and Julie Lythcott-Haims all supported a motion proposed by Veenker that would have committed the city to supporting the bikeways but then also pursued further improvements after the bikeways were in place. That motion failed by a 3-4 vote.

“I want to make sure we get started with the bike lanes and then we do everything in our power to make them even safer, even better for our community,” Veenker said. “I’m not happy with just the painting, but I do think it’s a good way to start.”

With neighboring cities adopting bike lanes, Veenker said she’d hate to see Palo Alto left out.

“I think we should be a good neighbor,” Veenker said. “We don’t want to be the gap in the smile — the missing tooth.”

Tanaka, an avid cyclist, was particularly enthusiastic about the El Camino project and suggested that moving ahead with bikeways would make El Camino more accessible to casual cyclists who today would not have the confidence to ride there. He also noted that unlike with most local bike projects, this $40-million effort is being funded by Caltrans.

“This stuff is pretty expensive and sometimes you have to think about not letting good become the enemy of great,” Tanaka said.
AISummary:

The Palo Alto City Council voted 6-1 in favor of bike lanes along El Camino Real. Council members also insisted that the thoroughfare get additional safety improvements. The state Department of Transportation will consider these additional measures over the next two or three months. The project could launch as early as this summer, Caltrans officials say. The council’s vote wasn’t the type of ironclad commitment that Caltrans was hoping for, a council member says. But it did create a path for getting to the final decision in a fairly short period of time.

---

Headline: Will biotech self impose tax?
URL: https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/will-biotech-self-impose-tax/article_3110db8a-f0db-11ee-b0dd-67ce1c69049e.html
Date and Time: Apr 02, 2024 05:45 AM
Content:


Some of South City’s largest biotech firms may soon vote to impose additional taxes on their own properties as a way to boost transportation infrastructure on the east side of Highway 101, particularly as job growth projections are now double the area’s prior estimates.

Christina Fernandez

The 44-acre Oyster Point district, the nearby area east of the freeway, passed a similar initiative several years ago, as the sole property owner, Kilroy Realty, sought swifter improvement projects and initiated what’s known as a community facilities district, or a designated area that agrees to pay a special form of tax on their properties in exchange for the construction of certain projects or services in that district.

The Oyster Point CFD is the only one of its kind in South San Francisco, but if the proposed Eastern Neighborhoods Community Facilities District — which comprises 260 properties, many of which are owned by life science giants like Genentech — goes through, the revenue-generating measure would likely fund more than $100 million worth of projects.

The biotech hub is well positioned to take advantage of such financing mechanisms, as they essentially would be the sole beneficiaries of the revenue generated from the tax-exempt bond, although it still needs a two-thirds majority to pass.

“The CFD is really a way to quickly build projects with a larger source of funding by bonding against the special taxes. It also gives property owners a direct say. They can definitely vote no if they don’t want it, and it won’t pass, but if they see the need for infrastructure improvements, and they want to get it done quickly, CFD is a way to do that,” Deputy City Manager Christina Fernandez said.

The effort is in the early stages, with city staff still engaging with property owners. An authorized bond amount is also yet to be determined, but the cost estimate for all of the area’s transportation infrastructure projects, as outlined in the city’s general plan, ranges from $150 million to $180 million. That greatly exceeds the $32 million in impact fees the city has collected for transportation services — one of the key funding mechanisms for such projects — and those must also be used for projects throughout the entire city.

Discussions around the creation of the Eastern Neighborhoods Community Facilities District began prior to the pandemic, but despite an increase in remote work, Fernandez said employee growth projections in the area continue increasing, reiterating the demand for more adequate transportation infrastructure. That would include a range of projects, such as more walkable pathways to and from the Caltrain, bus stop upgrades and road improvements.

Most recent estimates show that the number of employees east of Highway 101 will grow to about 100,000 by 2040, which is nearly double the estimates from 2019.

“Back in the day, it was mostly warehouses and industrial uses, and it does not have the capacity to handle the intensity of the development over the years,” Fernandez said.

If the city decides to move forward with the initiative, a petition would be filed around June, followed by a public hearing.

alyse@smdailyjournal.com

(650) 344-5200 ext. 102
AISummary:

The Eastern Neighborhoods Community Facilities District would likely fund more than $100 million worth of projects. Many of the district's 260 properties are owned by life science giants like Genentech. Job growth projections are now double the area’s prior estimates. The effort is in the early stages, with city staff still engaging with property owners. It still needs a two-thirds majority to pass, but the city hopes to move forward with the initiative by the end of the year. The district is the only one of its kind in South San Francisco.

---

Headline: Tensions run high as Mountain View residents  share pain of living next to loud VTA bells
URL: https://www.mv-voice.com/community/2024/04/01/tensions-run-high-as-mountain-view-residents-share-pain-of-living-next-to-loud-vta-bells/
Date and Time: Apr 01, 2024 12:02 PM
Content:


A community meeting threatened to go off the rails several times last week, as residents living near Whisman Station implored the Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) to put an end to the incessant ringing of bells and horns in their neighborhood.

“Every time a train goes by, it’s like a nuclear attack,” said one resident, addressing a panel of VTA officials at the German International School campus in Mountain View on Thursday, March 28.

The meeting was co-hosted by the city as an attempt to give community members and the VTA an opportunity to find some common ground. A few years ago, VTA upgraded its train bells to a higher pitch and added more horns to the rail-crossings between Middlefield Road and Central Expressway.

Since then, the Whisman Station community has been besieged by a constant bombardment of noise broadcasting the arrival and departure of trains that run from a little past 5 a.m. through midnight, nearly every day of the week.

About 50 residents showed up at the meeting to ask VTA to turn the tracks by Whisman Station into a quiet zone, where bells are not regularly sounded. But their hopes were dashed when officials said their hands were tied by the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC).

The CPUC stipulates the volume level of VTA bells, which is set at 75 decibels to be heard 100 feet away from the front of trains. It also requires that VTA sound bells when entering and leaving stations and at every crossing.

Perhaps most critically though, the CPUC does not have a process in place to create quiet zones in residential neighborhoods — unlike the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), which regulates heavy rail operations.

“Long story short, Mountain View does not qualify for a quiet zone,” said Susan Lucero, VTA Deputy Director of Safety and Compliance. “The quiet zone process is an FRA process. We are compliant with CPUC regulations, and CPUC does not have a quiet zone process,” she said.

Light rail tracks that are adjacent to heavy rail tracks, like Caltrain, can fall under FRA jurisdiction and qualify for consideration as a quiet zone, according to the VTA. But the tracks by Whisman Station miss the mark.

“The heavy rail track would have to run parallel with our system. So, since there’s a split at that point (by Central Expressway), then our corridor continuing through Whisman Station is not regulated by the FRA,” said Antonio Tovar, VTA Transit Systems Safety Supervisor.

The news provoked frustration from community members. “The real problem we got is we have no rights. You guys can do whatever you want to us and that’s what you’re doing. We have no rights,” said Mike Wilkes, a Whisman Station resident.

Eileen Goodwin, a consultant who was hired by the city to facilitate the meeting, had little success moving the discussion forward, and when she criticized the audience, it nearly derailed the entire proceedings.

“We can just stop with all this, you can yell at us until it’s time to go, but it’s not going to get you the answers we need to get you. I’m sorry that this group is really off the chain. I don’t know if it’s post-COVID or what,” Goodwin said.

The comment outraged residents who in turn said Goodwin was not acting like a neutral party or treating them with respect. Goodwin then announced that she was leaving, which prompted some people to jeer, while others expressed dismay.

An older man stood up to admonish the crowd, asking them to listen to the officials in the room and recognize that nothing would be decided that evening. “That’s just quite disrespectful that somebody’s going to leave here. That isn’t how we should be operating,” he said.

Subdued by the comments, the audience settled down, and Dawn Cameron, Mountain View’s acting assistant city manager and community development Director, stepped in to provide new direction. “Obviously, that didn’t go well, and so we’re going to do a bit of a reset here,” she said.

With Cameron at the helm, the community started to chip away at the edges of their main concern: how to get VTA to damper its bells.

Jennifer Delaney, a Whisman Station resident, addressed the three city council members sitting in the audience. “How can we partner together on this so that there can be a larger voice?” she asked Margaret Abe-Koga, Alison Hicks and Emily Ann Ramos. The question received support from other residents who also pressed the council to engage with the CPUC to make changes.

Abe-Koga, who is an ex-officio member of the VTA board of directors, leveled with the community, stating that there was little chance the CPUC would listen to the city. “I don’t want you all to feel like tomorrow this is going to happen. We can work on it. It may take years, but that’s where I think VTA is trying to come up with some more immediate solutions,” she said.

VTA had already proposed to standardize its bells to 75 decibels, whereas before some crossings were sounding “high bells” at 85 decibels. The agency also said it was modifying train bells on a new fleet that, while still set at 75 decibels, would sound less strident.

With the community’s input, VTA agreed to address the issue of banging pedestrian gates, and said it would look into allegations of train operators who were sounding bells too loudly and too long at the station and crossings.

The city also asked VTA to look into its ridership numbers and to consider reducing some of its service hours when numbers were low, like late in the evenings, thereby reducing the need to sound bells.

Several residents noted these modifications were incremental, and not the systemic changes they were looking for that would bring the peace of a quiet zone. For these reasons, some residents questioned whether their efforts would be better spent not advocating to change CPUC regulations but shutting down the VTA line entirely and turning it into a bicycle path.

The VTA representatives did not weigh in on this scenario. But in a roundabout way, they offered some encouragement to the community to rally and advocate for change.

“We have a better knowledge of how CPUC works, but we don’t have a bigger, stronger bandwidth than you as a public. We’re actually mandated by them. They are the headmaster or teacher in a school that uses a stick on us,” said Nauni Singh, VTA Deputy Director of Transit Operations.

“Then let’s complement our voices,” a community member responded.

“Absolutely,” Singh said.
AISummary:

The Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) is trying to put an end to the incessant ringing of train bells. The VTA does not have a process in place to create quiet zones in residential areas, unlike the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), which regulates heavy rail operations. “The real problem we got is we have no rights. You guys can do whatever you want to us and that’s what you’re doing,” said VTA Deputy Director of Safety and Compliance.

---

Headline: Residents frustrated by shifting plans for flood protection
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/palo-alto/2024/04/01/residents-frustrated-by-shifting-plans-for-flood-protection/
Date and Time: Apr 01, 2024 08:57 AM
Content:


​​When heavy rains drenched the Peninsula on New Year’s Eve in 2022, they didn’t just flood the streets of Crescent Park, Duveneck/St. Francis and other neighborhoods around the volatile San Francisquito Creek.

They also eroded many of the plans that Palo Alto and its partner agencies have had in place to protect these neighborhoods from future flooding, dealing a stinging setback to residents who have been waiting for these improvements for more than 25 years.

With the flood damage exceeding projections, officials from the San Francisquito Creek Joint Powers Authority effectively acknowledged that the projects they had planned for Reach 2 — the agency’s second phase of its major flood-control project — no longer suffice when it comes to flood protection. The creek, it turns out, has less capacity than officials had previously thought. And the variations at the top of its banks have made a larger than expected difference when it comes to water spilling over the top and entering neighborhoods.

More worryingly for residents, the creek authority has concluded that it cannot proceed with the replacement of the flood-prone Pope-Chaucer bridge, a project that area residents have long clamored for, until other improvements are made downstream of the project. And after having its assumptions upended by the Dec. 31, 2022 storm, the creek authority does not know at this time what those improvements would be.

Frustrations about the latest delays spilled out during a March 30 town hall meeting, which attracted a crowd of residents from Crescent Park, Duveneck/St. Francis, Community Center and Triple El neighborhoods to Duveneck Elementary School. Many were put off by the latest change of plans from the creek authority, an agency that is headed by elected officials from Palo Alto, Menlo Park, East Palo Alto, Santa Clara Valley Water District and the San Mateo County Flooding and Sea Level Resiliency District and that has been working on flood protection since the devastating flood of February 1998.

“I was flooded in 1998 and I’m very concerned about another flood coming,” said Evan Economos, a De Soto Drive resident.

He was among the residents who pressed the city and the creek authority to be more specific about when they plan to replace the Newell and the Pope-Chaucer bridges. The city is spearheading the Newell Road bridge replacement, which was slated for this year but is now projected to take place in 2025. The Pope-Chaucer bridge replacement, which is being led by the creek authority, is on shakier grounds, according to Margaret Bruce, executive director of the creek authority.

Some improvements have already been made, though they have largely focused on the more vulnerable downstream areas between Newell Road and the U.S. Highway 101. As part of the Reach 1 project that the creek authority completed in 2019, it had fortified these areas by widening channels and building new levees.

But the next phase of planned improvements, known as Reach 2, has not gone according to plans. After the December 2022 storm, engineers from Valley Water flagged the deviation between the creek’s actual activity and the authority’s projections about creek activity, suggesting that the assumptions on which the agency had built its flood-control project may no longer be sufficient.

A review that the consulting firm Schaaf & Wheeler released in February corroborated the Valley Water study and concluded that the creek authority’s prior model has “overestimated creek capacity.” It also found that the “creek geometry and creek roughness are the most important factors to predict overtopping.”

Given the latest information, Bruce said that the earliest that the creek authority can move ahead with replacing the Pope-Chaucer bridge would be in 2027. A key goal is to make sure that any improvements do not place downstream areas at greater risk, she said.

“Figuring out how to remove it or how to change it or how to replace it that doesn’t add to the flood risk of Palo Alto, Menlo Park and East Palo Alto downstream is going to be the hardest thing,” Bruce said.

The Schaaf & Wheeler study, she suggested, underscored the importance of the Pope-Chaucer bridge in protecting other areas from flooding.

“We understand that the slight variations at tops of bank at either side make a big difference about where the water spills and we learned that not only does the Pope-Chaucer bridge cause problems because it’s a choke point and water backs up behind it and spills out, it’s protective of Palo Alto, East Palo Alto and Menlo Park downstream because it retains some of the water,” Bruce said at the Town Hall meeting. “It is illegal for us to transfer risk.”

Not everyone was satisfied with the explanation. Susan Saal, a resident of Forest Avenue, was among those who were frustrated with the bureaucratic impediments to flood improvements. She recalled the anxieties that she and her neighbors experienced during the Dec. 31, 2022, rains.

“We were desperately worried about our neighbors, we were desperately worried about our own property. It was a tremendous crisis,” Saal said. “It is unclear to me what’s holding us up from achieving … what is the right thing to do in balancing these ecological needs with the real problem that we have with the flow of water through this creek.”

The creek authority is also struggling with this question. In March, it went out to bid on a consultant to help it forge a new path forward after the latest setbacks. It expects to hire a firm latest this month and have a new set of alternatives in place for analysis by this fall. It remains to be seen, however, what those improvements would be, how much they will cost, where the funding will come from and whether they will be acceptable to residents around the creek.

Menlo Park City Council member Drew Combs, who chairs the creek authority board of directors, observed in a December meeting that some of the alternatives that had been previously proposed for the Reach 2 segment — including flood walls — had “very visceral and negative reactions from the community.” Bringing these alternatives back could undermine residents’ confidence in the creek authority, he said.

“I’d say we risk a very large loss of trust if we then seem to go back to those alternatives when there was clear public apprehension and say, ‘Well, a new analysis. …’  That’s when trust erodes further,” Combs said.

While major upgrades won’t be coming for some time, the creek authority is preparing for limited creek improvements in the next two summers. This summer, residents should expect to see some site preparation work in the downstream area, she said. The goal is then to widen the channel in the downstream area in 2025 and then augment that work with other projects in 2026 and 2027.

“We have to think very carefully about what is the best solution to remove the problem — to mitigate the problem upstream of the water backing up and spilling — while not adding to the woes of the people of Palo Alto, Menlo Park and East Palo Alto if we were to send all that water down their way,” Bruce said. “We’re looking at that. It may be a while before we have an answer.”
AISummary:

Heavy rains drenched the Peninsula on New Year’s Eve in 2022. Flood damage exceeding projections, officials from the San Francisquito Creek Joint Powers Authority acknowledged that the projects they had planned for Reach 2 no longer suffice when it comes to flood protection. The creek, it turns out, has less capacity than officials had previously thought. The agency has concluded that it cannot proceed with the replacement of the flood-prone Pope-Chaucer bridge until other improvements are made downstream of the project.

---

Headline: Community Briefs: Easter celebration at Shoreline, volunteer fair, city photo contest
URL: https://www.mv-voice.com/community/2024/03/30/community-briefs-easter-celebration-at-shoreline-volunteer-fair-city-photo-contest/
Date and Time: Mar 30, 2024 09:00 AM
Content:


Shoreline Lake in Mountain View is hosting an Easter celebration that’s open to the public from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Sunday, March 31.

The Easter bunny will be onsite to give treats to children and will be available for photos. The American Bistro restaurant will also serve brunch and sell hand-cut honeycomb from Christina Ferrari, who operates the boathouse and restaurant. 

To make brunch reservations, call 650-965-1745 or email bistro@shorelinelake.com

For more information, visit shorelinelake.com/upcoming.html. 

Mountain View’s Recreation Department is scheduled to host its annual volunteer fair from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Saturday, April 6, at the Mountain View Community Center, 201 S. Rengstorff Ave. 

Local organizations will be onsite to share information about volunteer opportunities and the services they provide.

For more information, visit mountainview.gov/volunteer. 

The city of Mountain View is running an Earth and Arbor Day photo contest, with submissions due by 5 p.m. on Wednesday, April 10.

Anyone who lives, goes to school or works in Mountain View is eligible. There are three age divisions: kindergarten through eighth grade students, high schoolers and adults.

Photos have to be taken in Mountain View, and only one entry is allowed per person. 

The theme is “rooted in our environment,” and entries must capture nature/the environment. According to the city’s website, the contest is looking for “photographs that depict the beauty, biodiversity, and resilience of the environment.”

Winners will receive various park passes and other prizes. Winning photos will also be displayed at City Hall from April 22 through May 3.

The public can vote for their favorites for the Voter’s Choice award from 5 p.m. on April 10 through 11:59 p.m. on April 14.

An awards ceremony will be held at the Earth and Arbor Day Celebration at the Mountain View Community Center on April 20.

For more information and to enter, visit collaborate.mountainview.gov/PhotoContest.
AISummary:

Shoreline Lake in Mountain View is hosting an Easter celebration on March 31. The Easter bunny will be onsite to give treats to children and will be available for photos. Mountain View’s Recreation Department is scheduled to host its annual volunteer fair on April 6. The city is running an Earth and Arbor Day photo contest, with submissions due by 5 p.m. on Wednesday, April 10. The contest is looking for “photographs that depict the beauty, biodiversity, and resilience of the environment”

---

Headline: Mountain View’s middle schools could get a new schedule with one fewer period, adding more time for each class
URL: https://www.mv-voice.com/education/2024/03/29/mountain-views-middle-schools-could-get-a-new-schedule-with-one-fewer-period-adding-more-time-for-each-class/
Date and Time: Mar 29, 2024 01:48 PM
Content:


Mountain View’s public middle schools may be getting new bell schedules next school year, in an effort to give more time for each class and carve out space for a weekly advisory period. Doing so would mean dropping a class period, shrinking the number of electives most students can take.

The Mountain View Whisman School District has convened a committee to review options for Graham and Crittenden middle schools, with the idea that a new schedule would take effect this fall.

The committee is currently leaning towards a schedule that would cut back the current eight-period system to seven, according to a presentation Superintendent Ayindé Rudolph gave to the school board at a Thursday, March 14, meeting.

That would give more time for each class while maintaining the same daily start and end times. School currently begins at 8:25 a.m. every day and ends at 3:20 p.m. each day except Thursday, when classes let out at 2:28 p.m.

The change would mean that most students would take two electives at once, rather than three. It would also add a weekly advisory period, during which counselors could provide lessons on social-emotional topics and teachers could check in with their students.

Rudolph presented three schedule options to the board, all of which used a seven-period model with a weekly advisory class, but differed in which classes met each day.

Of the three choices, he said that the committee favored one where students would attend all seven classes on Mondays, Tuesdays and Fridays. There would be longer, block periods on Wednesdays and Thursdays, with students attending their odd-numbered classes on Wednesdays and even-numbered classes on Thursdays.

Currently, the middle schools use an eight-period “cascading” schedule. Students attend all eight classes on Mondays, followed by six classes on each of the other four days, with a different two classes dropped each day.

The board was broadly supportive of the option that Rudolph said the committee preferred.

The committee is currently getting feedback on the potential schedule change from teachers, students and parents. It will bring a proposal back to the school board for guidance at a future meeting, district spokesperson Shelly Hausman told the Voice.

The current proposal is a prototype and adjustments could still be made, Hausman added. 

Under the new schedule, each period would be 48 minutes long on the three seven-period days, and around 85 minutes on the two block days, though there’s some variation between block periods.

Currently, classes are generally 41 minutes on Mondays when all eight periods meet; 56 minutes on Tuesdays, Wednesday and Fridays when six periods meet; and 48 minutes on Thursdays when six periods meet with an earlier dismissal time. There is again some variation within those times.

The new schedule would also have a 37 minute advisory period on Thursdays. Chief Human Relations Officer Tara Vikjord told the Voice that teachers and district staff believe this time will be very important to help address students’ needs.

“I hope that the advisory period … helps every child with their own social-emotional wellbeing and that it allows all children to enjoy school,” Vikjord said.

It would also give teachers time to have students complete items like surveys without missing out on class time, Vikjord said.

Switching from eight to seven periods each day would impact the number of electives that students can take. Students typically have five core classes: English, math, social studies, science and PE. That means most students currently have space for three electives. Under the new system, there would be room for two.

Some students are enrolled in additional classes, which reduces the number of electives they can choose. These include students who are learning English and take an English Language Development (ELD) class, as well as some students with disabilities who take an instructional support class.

One of the district’s big goals with the schedule shift is to make sure that these students still get to pick at least one elective, even with one fewer period.

The district has had a seven-period schedule in the past, but moved to the eight-period cascading model in 2018 because of concerns over elective choice. Students enrolled in both ELD and instructional support didn’t have room for any electives on top of their five core classes.

If the district goes back to a seven-period day, the idea is to create a new combined class for students who are both learning English and require instructional support, making it into a single period that would leave space for an elective.

While the design is still being worked out, the idea is to have a course that is co-taught by both an ELD and special education teacher, Vikjord said.

“We’re really supporting language skills and individualized strategies that the kids need, to really, truly help them access the content in their general courses in a much more structured and strategic fashion,” Vikjord said.

According to Vikjord, roughly two dozen students across both middle schools are currently taking both an ELD and instructional support class.

Another change in the proposed schedule is that the mid-morning break would increase from 13 to 15 minutes. That would give students who get breakfast at school a bit more time to eat, Vikjord said.
AISummary:

Mountain View Whisman School District has convened a committee to review options for Graham and Crittenden middle schools. The committee is leaning towards a schedule that would cut back the current eight-period system to seven. That would give more time for each class while maintaining the same daily start and end times. The new schedule would also add a weekly advisory period, during which counselors could provide lessons on social-emotional topics and teachers could check in with their students. The board was broadly supportive of the option that the committee preferred.

---

Headline: Palo Alto set to rule on El Camino bike lanes
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/03/29/palo-alto-set-to-rule-on-el-camino-bike-lanes/
Date and Time: Mar 29, 2024 09:36 AM
Content:


Palo Alto will have a rare chance to dramatically transform one of its main thoroughfares on April 1, when the City Council considers a proposal to remove parking spaces all along El Camino Real to make way for bike lanes.

But as the council nears one of its biggest transportation decisions of the year, city officials continue to face a thorny dilemma: Should they support a design that many consider to be imperfect and that their consultants say fails to comply with the city’s newly adopted “safe systems” approach? Or should they oppose the project and effectively ensure that El Camino Real won’t see any major bike improvements for four or more years.

The proposal from the state Department of Transportation has galvanized both significant support and vociferous skepticism from local bicyclists and city officials since Caltrans unveiled it last year. Both were in evidence over the past month, as Caltrans officials made their case at public meetings that replacing parking spaces with bike lanes would improve El Camino.

According to Caltrans’ analysis, there were 20 crashes on El Camino in Palo Alto between 2016 and 2020 that resulted in injuries and one fatal collision.

Yet a recent review by the city’s consultant Fehr & Peers found that the project fails to comply with some of the principles of the “safe system” approach, which seeks to minimize the number and severity of injuries related to collisions and which both Caltrans and the city have embraced. Specifically, the review faulted the plan for failing to account for high speeds of motorists along El Camino, which create a hazard for cyclists at intersections and which would continue to pose “significant risks to vulnerable road users.”

The review puts the city in a bit of a bind. While the city hopes to bring safety improvements to its network of high-injury roads — which includes El Camino — as part of an ongoing effort to upgrade its bike master plan, it hopes to do so on its own pace. And as those who use the Charleston-Arastradero corridor can testify, Palo Alto’s pace can feel glacial. The city’s phased plan for improving the heavily used road has been stretching for well over a decade and is still not entirely completed.

While Caltrans has authority over El Camino, which is a state highway, Caltrans officials had assured the city that if the state agency does not get local support for the bike lanes, it would continue to work with local officials on a new plan. But in recent hearings, Caltrans also made it clear that without advancing the current project, which is tied to a broader effort to repave El Camino, delays could jeopardize the project.

If the city were to decide in the future that it wants bike lanes on El Camino, Caltrans would need to look for a new funding source, officials said. And even once this source is identified, the agency would have to start all over with planning and designing.

“Even if we are able to secure the funding, it will take us like four year to develop the project to install bike lanes in the future,” said Aung Maung, senior transportation engineer at Caltrans, at a March 13 meeting of the Planning Transportation Commission and the Human Relations Commission.

Yet moving ahead poses its own risks, city officials say. Council member Pat Burt, who attended the Feb. 29 community hearing that Caltrans hosted to discuss the project, told this publication after the meeting that he remains unconvinced that the proposal from Caltrans would actually make El Camino safer and reduce the number of collisions. He noted that the city has many safer bike routes, including Park Boulevard, and questioned the benefits of attracting more cyclists to El Camino.

Planning Commissioner Keith Reckdahl similarly touted the superiority of Park over El Camino at a recent discussion of the Caltrans project. He also exemplified the city’s ambivalent attitude toward the project. He said he loves bike lanes but noted that many factors remain unresolved, including impacts on local businesses that don’t have off-site parking.

“It seems like we’re rushing things and I’m always worried about rushing things and not making informed decisions,” Reckdahl said.

Others were more excited about the proposal. Planning Commissioner George Lu said that while he was concerned about some aspects of the design, including bike lanes that disappear in certain segments of El Camino, the project would overall benefit the community.

“I think the net ridership on ridership will be positive,” Lu said at the March 13 discussion. “I think there are a lot of use cases where bike lanes on El Camino are different bike lanes from Park — people who ride their bikes on the bus, people who live on El Camino or maybe have multiple destinations along El Camino and don’t want to circuitously detour.”

Human Relations Commission Kaloma Smith, a supporter of the Caltrans plan, said he was struck by the inconsistency between the city’s vision, which is all for bike improvements, and its cautious attitude toward actually implementing projects. He supported moving ahead with the bike plan, its imperfections notwithstanding, and called the Caltrans plan an opportunity to further the city’s values.

“When you start putting bike lanes and other commuter-friendly things on main intersections, you will start generating more opportunities for economic activity,” Smith said. “Also, if you connect to regional bike options, you now create equity because essential workers who are taking the VTA bus can now ride. … So it’s an equity issue.”

A new report from the city’s Office of Transportation lays out four options for the city council to consider on April 1, three of which would delay (and potentially derail) the project. It could adopt the Caltrans approach and remove parking spaces while acknowledging that more improvements would need to be made to align with the “safe systems” approach; defer action until Caltrans plans compliance with “safe system” principles; defer action until Caltrans considers reducing travel lanes on El Camino (which is not part of the current scope of work); or defer action to align the El Camino decisions with the completion of the city’s bike plan upgrade, which is slated for late 2025.

The report from Chief Transportation Official Philip Kamhi also notes that there remains some uncertainty over whether the council will even have the final say over the bike lane project.

“While Caltrans staff have consistently expressed a desire to collaborate with the City on improving safety on El Camino Real, to date, Caltrans has not stated if it will implement the proposed bicycle lanes without a Council vote to support the removal of parking,” Kamhi’s report states. “Caltrans has established that a bicycle facility is needed on El Camino Real based on a safety analysis. Given the safety and complete street policies that now govern state transportation planning, it is unclear if Caltrans will re-pave El Camino Real without adding a bicycle facility, regardless of City support.”
AISummary:

Palo Alto's City Council will consider a proposal to remove parking spaces along El Camino Real. The proposal has galvanized both significant support and skepticism from local bicyclists. A recent review by the city’s consultant Fehr & Peers found that the project fails to comply with some of the principles of the “safe system’ approach. The city hopes to bring safety improvements to its network of high-injury roads as part of an ongoing effort to upgrade its bike master plan.

---

Headline: Letter to the editor: Revitalize Cal Ave. and reconsider Valley Water censure
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/letters-to-the-editor/2024/03/29/letter-to-the-editor-revitalize-cal-ave-and-reconsider-valley-water-censure/
Date and Time: Mar 29, 2024 09:04 AM
Content:


Editor:

As a former retailer I have been reading the articles and letters re. California Ave in Palo Alto. Signage and beautification alone is not going to to the job to revitalize the area.

For retailers to fill the empty storefronts, they are looking for traffic. And traffic means pedestrians, bicyclists and cars.

Until and unless California Ave is opened up to traffic, things are not going to change much, and more businesses will be leaving the avenue. Very sad.

Jan AartsWebster Street, Palo Alto

Editor:

The Valley Water Board censuring (Regional Politics, March 22) the District 7 representative raises important questions.  

First is the immature squabble with the claim that speech, occurring once is discrimination. Really?

Second is the loss of the representative of District 7 from the San Francisquito Joint Powers Authority. This is undemocratic. This creek flooded 25 years ago and measures to mitigate the potential problem have not been adopted. We need representation NOW.  

Third is the division of this and other governmental agencies (SM & SC counties) into voting districts. If all seven “Directors” had been elected at large, all would bear responsibility and rely on votes from people throughout the Valley Water area. With districts, no other elected representative answers to voters in the other districts. So you can raise your concerns with all the representatives, but expect attention from only one. One rep has little chance of pushing any particular concern to a satisfactory conclusion. With At Large elections, all reps would have to pay attention to your concern and better governance might be expected. 

Raymond R. White  

Whitney Drive, Mountain View

Want to submit your own letter to the editor? Palo Alto Online publishes letters from local residents about news and issues taking place in the community. Send in your letter of no more than 400 words using our “Submit an opinion” form and it will be considered for publication.  
AISummary:

The Valley Water Board censuring the District 7 representative raises important questions. The loss of the representative of District 7 from the San Francisquito Joint Powers Authority is undemocratic. With districts, no other elected representative answers to voters in the other districts. With At Large elections, all reps would have to pay attention to your concern and better governance might be expected.Want to submit your own letter to the editor? Palo Alto Online publishes letters from local residents about news and issues taking place in the community. Send in your letter of no more than 400 words using our “Submit an opinion” form.

---

Headline: Public Agenda
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-government/2024/03/29/public-agenda-17/
Date and Time: Mar 29, 2024 09:02 AM
Content:


CITY COUNCIL … The council plans to get an update on Palo Alto Link, the city’s rideshare program. It will then consider an update to the tree protection ordinance and consider approving a proposal from the state Department of Transportation to remove parking spaces along El Camino Real and install bike lanes as part of its repaving project. The meeting will begin at 5:30 p.m. on Monday, April 1, in the Council Chambers at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 362 027 238.

UTILITIES ADVISORY COMMISSION … The commission plans to discuss the city’s cross-bore verification program; consider a power purchase agreement with Ameresco Half Moon Bay LLC for up to 60,000 megawatt hours per year of biogas energy. The meeting will begin at 6 p.m. on Wednesday, April 3, in the Council Chambers at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 966 9129 7246.

Here’s a roundup of government action this past week.

City Council (March 25)

Priorities: The council approved its objections for 2024 relating to community health, safety, inclusiveness and well-being. Yes: Unanimous

Salary: The council agreed to appoint a seven-member committee to consider salary raises for council members. Yes: Lauing, Lythcott-Haims, Stone, Veenker Yes: Burt, Kou, Tanaka

Parks and Recreation Commission (March 26)

El Camino Park: The commission heard a presentation on a proposal to construct a Quarry Road extension between the Palo Alto Transit Center and El Camino Real, through El Camino Park. Action: None

Planning and Transportation Commission (March 27)

Bicycles: The commission heard an update on the city’s pending update of the Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan. Action: NoneRetail: The commission discussed proposals to support retail, including modifying or removing the ground-retail protection ordinance. Action: None
AISummary:

The Palo Alto City Council will meet on April 1 to discuss Palo Alto Link. The commission will consider a power purchase agreement with Ameresco Half Moon Bay LLC for up to 60,000 megawatt hours per year of biogas energy. The council agreed to appoint a seven-member committee to consider salary raises for council members. The planning and transportation commission heard an update on the city’s pending update of the Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan. The parks and recreation commission heard a presentation on a proposal to construct a Quarry Road extension through El Camino Park.

---

Headline: Wet, windy weekend weather returns to Bay Area
URL: https://www.mv-voice.com/bay-city-news/2024/03/28/wet-windy-weekend-weather-returns-to-bay-area/
Date and Time: Mar 28, 2024 02:02 PM
Content:


An unsettled period of partly cloudy Bay Area skies and isolated rain showers will give way to a new storm system Friday that is expected to produce a moderate amount of rain and strong winds throughout the weekend.

Cloudy and cool conditions Thursday, along with showers tapering off in the evening, will lead to a brief pause in rainfall chances overnight before the next system moves in Friday morning, according to the National Weather Service.

“We can expect light to moderate rainfall, with the heaviest in the coastal mountain ranges, then by Friday afternoon we’re going to turn to a post-fontal environment, and we can see some thunderstorms potentially linger into Saturday evening,” said Weather Service meteorologist Roger Gass.

The three-day forecast calls for anywhere from a half inch to an inch of rain in most places, with up to an inch and a quarter in San Francisco.

Temperatures are expected to be mostly moderate, with lows across the region dipping down to the low 40s inland and mid 50s along the coast.

Also, a wind advisory is in effect from 11 a.m. Friday to 5 a.m. Saturday for the East Bay Hills, the Santa Cruz Mountains and the Los Padres National Forest, as well as the Santa Lucia Mountains and higher elevations in San Benito County, according to the weather service.

During that time, people can expect wind gusts of up to 45 mph in most affected areas, with stronger winds at some localized peaks.

After the weekend, things should settle down quickly and the sun should come out again, Gass said.

“Monday through mid-week we are expecting a warming and drying trend,” he said.

After that, more unsettled weather could be on the way for later in the week.
AISummary:

A new storm system will move in Friday, bringing rain and strong winds. The three-day forecast calls for anywhere from a half inch to an inch of rain in most places. A wind advisory is in effect for the East Bay Hills, the Santa Cruz Mountains and the Los Padres National Forest. After the weekend, things should settle down quickly and the sun should come out again, meteorologist Roger Gass says. The weather service says more unsettled weather could be on the way for later in the week.

---

Headline: Around Town: Cubberley strides, free Link for teens and advocacy in New York
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/news/2024/03/28/around-town-cubberley-strides-free-link-for-teens-and-advocacy-in-new-york/
Date and Time: Mar 28, 2024 12:25 PM
Content:


In this week’s Around Town column, a compromise over Cubberley Community Center, a young advocate making waves and free rides for Palo Alto teens.

CUBBERLEY STRIDES … After years of shifting plans, shattered dreams and bureaucratic disagreements, the Palo Alto City Council and the Palo Alto Unified School District may now be on the brink of a compromise over Cubberley Community Center, which the city has been hoping to upgrade and renovate for decades. The city and the school board released a joint statement on March 26 to say they have made “significant strides” in securing an agreement for the city to expand its share of Cubberley, which would be a precursor to the renovation. The statement notes that the city and the district have met seven times since December 2023 and are now in the “late stages of negotiation.” They had also agreed to hire a mediator to bridge the remaining gap on property terms and price. Council member Julie Lythcott-Haims, who heads an ad hoc committee of council members and school board trustees that has been working on the Cubberley project, said this week that the talks are now proceeding “expeditiously.” “While it would be inappropriate of course to give any details, as these negotiations are happening in closed session, I think we can evince a confidence around the expeditiousness and the desire to reach some kind of outcome with Cubberely,” Lythcott-Haims said.

SPARKING CHANGE … Palo Alto resident and disability advocate Dashiell Meier spoke in front of the United Nations on March 22 for the World Down Syndrome Day Conference to call on doctors to do more to listen to patients with Down syndrome about their symptoms not related to their disability. The conference had attendees from over 20 countries. Meier’s advocacy started young, when he was in first grade and began speaking at Palo Alto elementary school classrooms about his experience with a disability, and has taken him to Sacramento, Washington, D.C., and now the Trusteeship Council Chamber at the UN’s Headquarters in New York.

LINK UP … This week, the City of Palo Alto announced its rideshare service Palo Alto Link will now offer free rides to select destinations for teens 13 to 18 years old. The rides will connect local teens to locations that offer mental health and community services, like the Teen Center at Mitchell Park Community Center, all of Palo Alto’s libraries, Cubberley Community Center and Lucie Stern Plaza. “I’m thrilled to see the City prioritizing teen health by providing an easy, free option for us to link to places and spaces with support and community connections,” said Olivia Chiang, Palo Alto Youth Council president. Apart from the free destinations, Link rides for teens are just $1 each, and can be paid with cash or a card. For a full list of free locations for teens, visit www.cityofpaloalto.org/PaloAltoLinkTeen. Palo Alto Link’s hours of service are Mondays through Fridays from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., and rides are available via the app or by calling (650) 505-5772.
AISummary:

The Palo Alto City Council and the Palo Alto Unified School District may be on the brink of a compromise over Cubberley Community Center. The city and the school board released a joint statement on March 26 to say they have made “significant strides” in securing an agreement. Palo Alto resident and disability advocate Dashiell Meier spoke in front of the United Nations on March 22 for the World Down Syndrome Day Conference. The rideshare service Palo Alto Link will now offer free rides to select destinations for teens 13 to 18.

---

Headline: With $369M in wastewater upgrades, Palo Alto hopes to help stem algal blooms
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/environment/2024/03/28/stemming-the-red-tide/
Date and Time: Mar 28, 2024 09:43 AM
Content:


The concrete tank that overlooks the Palo Alto Baylands from Embarcadero Way resembles an industrial-sized Jacuzzi where ducks float through murky, bubbly water, seemingly oblivious to the lightly pungent, industrial scent of the processed sewage.

It is one of four aeration basins that are arranged in a giant square at the city’s Regional Quality Control Plant, a sprawling industrial complex that receives and treats sewage from Palo Alto and its partner agencies of Mountain View, East Palo Alto Sanitary District, Los Altos, Los Altos Hills and Stanford University. Three tanks are currently filled, while the fourth basin sits empty as construction workers fortify its concrete base as part of $369-million upgrade to the treatment plant on Embarcadero Road — the city’s most expensive and most complex ongoing infrastructure project.

The effort, which the city kicked off in 2022 and which it plans to complete in 2028, is the biggest upgrade that the plant has seen since 1972, when these basins were initially installed, said plant manager James Allen. Its largest component is a $193-million upgrade to the secondary treatment system, an industrial process that removes chemicals such as ammonia and nitrogen from sewage. Other ongoing components of the project include a new power distribution system and the rehabilitation of the primary sedimentary tanks, which are located just west of the aeration basins and which separate the sludge from the liquid.

When the city kicked off the project, its primary goal was to replace aged equipment, Allen said during a March 21 site tour. A long-term plan that the city approved for the wastewater plant in 2012 noted that much of the equipment at the plant is between 35 and 51 years old and shows significant signs of wear and tear.

But just as construction began, the project took on a second mission: preventing another red tide.

The clarion call for this new effort came in the summer of 2022, when an algal bloom killed more than 10,000 fish and turned water bodies connected to the bay a shade of reddish brown. The bloom, which first appeared near Alameda and then spread to South San Francisco Bay and San Pablo Bay, was the largest in recorded history, according to the California Ocean Protection Council.

State regulators have taken notice. The San Francisco Regional Water Quality Control Board, which regulates the region’s 37 wastewater treatment plants, is scheduled to adopt this summer an updated watershed permit that will set targets for reducing nutrients in wastewater. The current permit, which the board adopted in 2019, required wastewater plants to track and report their nutrient discharge into the bay.

The next permit is still under development, but it is expected to give agencies 10 years to meet new thresholds for reducing nutrient loads in the region, said Lorien Fono, executive director of the Bay Area Clean Water Agencies, an association that helps coordinate the efforts of the Bay Area’s dozens of water control plants.

Fono, whose group has been discussing the new requirements with the water board, said the forthcoming watershed permit will create a nutrient limit that would be 50% lower than what the region experienced in the mid-2010’s, when the nutrient levels were at their peak. They have since been reduced by about 10%, she said.

The effort will be neither easy nor cheap, she said. BACWA estimates that it will cost about $11 billion to implement the needed improvements. This works out to about $4,000 per household using the entire system, the agency estimated.

With the upgrade effort, the Palo Alto plant is methodically preparing for this new, nutrient-light world order. The Embarcadero Way facility has already been treating sewage for ammonia since 1980, Allen said. Once the plant upgrade is completed, the plant would also remove between 50% and 60% of the nitrogen in local wastewater, helping to meet the new standards.

“Ammonia is toxic to fish so we’ve been removing ammonia but we don’t break down the nitrate — that goes out to the bay and it’s converted to nitrogen gas out there,” Allen said. “Now we have to take the nitrogen gas out here.”

Fono said that meeting the requirements of the new permit would require Bay Area plants to make the largest investment in wastewater infrastructure since the 1970s, when cities across the country were upgrading their plants to comply with the Clean Water Act. But unlike at that time, when the federal government made billions of dollars available in grant funding, the agencies don’t have any such funding sources.

Her agency is trying to coordinate the regional response. Its members include the five “principal members”: Central Contra Costa Sanitary District, East Bay Dischargers Authority, East Bay Municipal Utility District, the City and County of San Francisco, and the City of San Jose. Palo Alto, which is the sixth-largest water control district, is one of 12 “associate members,” while dozens of other cities and agencies, including the City of Mountain View, are affiliated members.

“This isn’t going to be a contentious permit, but we want to see a thoughtful and strategic approach because this is going to be extremely costly,” Fono said.

Local ratepayers will soon experience this firsthand. When the Palo Alto City Council adopts its new budget in July, it plans to raise wastewater rates by 15% to pay for the various capital improvements at the wastewater plant, which will add about $7.30 to the average monthly bill, according to utilities department staff.

Ratepayers should also expect rate hikes of 9% in each of the next two years followed by 8% and 7% increases in each of the following two, according to a rate forecast from the department. The main drivers are the need to replace aged sewer lines, to refill depleted financial reserves and to pay for debt services on the capital projects at the wastewater plant, according to staff.

Palo Alto isn’t the only agency that is investing in upgrades that aim to reduce nitrogen. The Oro Lomo Sanitary District in Alameda County, for example, recently completed an upgrade to its nutrient treatment process by installing a “sidestream treatment system” on its San Lorenzo plant. The process focuses on the nutrient-rich liquid that results from dewatering anaerobically digested biosolids, which involves microbes breaking down organic matter in the absence of air. Meanwhile, the Union Sanitary District is adding a process for biological nutrient removal at a cost of $509 million, according to a letter that Fono submitted to the water board in January year.

Both the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission and Silicon Valley Clean Water, which is based in Redwood City, are also pursuing sidestream treatment improvements, which are slated to be completed in 2026 and 2029, respectively.

Some districts, like East Bay Municipal Utility District, are trying to meet the nutrient mandate by updating existing infrastructure to maximize nutrient reduction, Fono said. Others are pursuing nutrient-reduction measures through projects that bring other benefits such as water purification. In these cases, the nutrient-reduction component is a happy byproduct that may be valuable but that isn’t as conspicuous as the other benefits.

“Frankly, the advantages of these expenditures aren’t going to be visible on a dayto-day basis by the community,” Fono said of the nutrient-reduction measures. “Assuming we don’t have perpetual algal blooms.”

Palo Alto is in the third category of agencies: those that are already upgrading aged infrastructure and are including nutrient reduction as part of those projects. As part of the pending upgrade, the aeration basins will be divided with concrete walls to create different zones. Some of these would operate without oxygen and will treat nitrogen, allowing the wastewater plant to reduce the nitrogen that gets emitted into the Bay by about half, according to the city.

The plant upgrade, which is being funded by Palo Alto and its partner cities and agencies, is the city’s first major foray into removing nitrogen, a nutrient that serves as food for the algal species Heterosigma akashiwo. Historically, the Bay region has seen relatively cloudy weather, which helps reduce algal blooms because plants need light to grow, Fono said. But thanks to a confluence of factors that include upstream dams and climate change, conditions have become clearer and more favorable to algal blooms, she said.

It’s not entirely clear what exactly the “safe” threshold is for nutrients in wastewater, she noted. But the algal bloom events in 2022 and 2023 are a sign that the region needs to do more.

“For 10 years we have been studying the science to understand the impacts of nutrients in the Bay,” Fono said. “This project is not complete. We know we want to start reducing nutrients but we don’t know what the safe levels are now.”

The aeration basin from which Allen describes the ongoing improvements represents the middle step in wastewater’s journey from the household to the Bay. After getting flushed down the toilet into the sewer system, the wastewater moves through “bar screens” where bars act like filters to remove roots, rags and other solid items. Pumps then send the wastewater into sedimentation tanks where smaller solids like hair and grease get skimmed off while thick sludge settles at the bottom.

As bottom-feeding sludge thickens into cakes and gets trucked out, the wastewater moves through the plant’s two “fixed film reactors,” rusty two-story towers that would be instantly recognizable to anyone walking near Byxbee Park. Inside are films of microorganisms that feast on the organic matter in the wastewater before it moves on to the bubbly aeration basins. Once the renovation is complete, the city hopes to decommission the fixed film reactors and transfer the entire process to the aeration basin area.

The wastewater then goes through further filtering, where layers of anthracite coal and sand remove small particles, before getting disinfected by ultraviolet light and discharging into the San Francisco Bay.

The sheer amount of processes and equipment that is packed into the plant makes the upgrade particularly complex, said Karin North, assistant director of the Department of Public Works. She and Allen likened the upgrade to keeping a patient alive during an open-heart surgery. Every time one aeration basin gets upgraded, the city has to move the pumps and shift the effluent into the other three tanks — a process that will take about five years to complete.

“Other treatment plants that have lots of open land may be able to do it more efficiently than faster than we can, but a lot of the plants in the Peninsula are constrained and it’s one of the complexity aspects of removing a new pollutant,” Allen said.

Allen called the $193-million upgrade of the secondary-treatment process the “largest project in the city’s history.” North noted that it will have taken about 15 years from the point when the city began designing these improvements to their actual completion.

“We’re in the middle of upgrading our facility while we’re running and operating it at the same time,” North said.

Critical to the process are the bubbles in the water, caused by pressurized air blowers about 15 feet below the surface and which prevent sludge from settling at the bottom of this tank. The air, according to the city, supports the microorganisms that remove ammonia and other dissolved solids.

In the future, Allen said, the basin will be equipped with a serpentine path, with some sections with the air off (anoxic zone) and others with the air on.

“We’ll be selecting for the different microorganisms in the different sections of the serpentine paths, in one section to break down ammonia … and in the next section break down the nitrogen,” Allen said.

Once the improvements are complete and the secondary treatment system is enhanced, the city expects nitrogen levels to drop by 50% to 60%. According to Allen, the plant discharged an average of just under 2,000 kilograms per day of total inorganic nitrogen between 2019 and 2023 during dry seasons, which go from May to November. That number has been rising, first to 2,181 kg in 2022 and then 2,277 kg per day in 2023, indicating nitrogen levels are currently rising.

Allen estimates that once the improvements are complete, the nitrogen levels are expected to go down to about 800 kg per day, well within the proposed threshold of the new permit.

“If we do our part, other agencies do their part, all the nitrogen in the Bay will drop and we won’t be at a tipping point causing algae blooms,” Allen said.
AISummary:

The $369-million upgrade to the treatment plant on Embarcadero Road is the city’s most expensive and most complex ongoing infrastructure project. Three tanks are currently filled, while the fourth basin sits empty as construction workers fortify its concrete base. The Bay Area Clean Water Agencies estimates that it will cost about $11 billion to implement the needed improvements. The next permit is still under development, but it is expected to give agencies 10 years to meet new thresholds for reducing nutrient loads in the region.

---

Headline: With $369M in upgrades, Palo Alto’s regional wastewater plant will help prevent algal bloom
URL: https://www.mv-voice.com/environment/2024/03/28/stemming-the-red-tide/
Date and Time: Mar 28, 2024 09:43 AM
Content:


The concrete tank that overlooks the Palo Alto Baylands from Embarcadero Way resembles an industrial-sized Jacuzzi where ducks float through murky, bubbly water, seemingly oblivious to the lightly pungent, industrial scent of the processed sewage.

It is one of four aeration basins that are arranged in a giant square at the city’s Regional Quality Control Plant, a sprawling industrial complex that receives and treats sewage from Palo Alto and its partner agencies of Mountain View, East Palo Alto Sanitary District, Los Altos, Los Altos Hills and Stanford University. Three tanks are currently filled, while the fourth basin sits empty as construction workers fortify its concrete base as part of $369-million upgrade to the treatment plant on Embarcadero Road — the city’s most expensive and most complex ongoing infrastructure project.

The effort, which the city kicked off in 2022 and which it plans to complete in 2028, is the biggest upgrade that the plant has seen since 1972, when these basins were initially installed, said plant manager James Allen. Its largest component is a $193-million upgrade to the secondary treatment system, an industrial process that removes chemicals such as ammonia and nitrogen from sewage. Other ongoing components of the project include a new power distribution system and the rehabilitation of the primary sedimentary tanks, which are located just west of the aeration basins and which separate the sludge from the liquid.

When the city kicked off the project, its primary goal was to replace aged equipment, Allen said during a March 21 site tour. A long-term plan that the city approved for the wastewater plant in 2012 noted that much of the equipment at the plant is between 35 and 51 years old and shows significant signs of wear and tear.

But just as construction began, the project took on a second mission: preventing another red tide.

The clarion call for this new effort came in the summer of 2022, when an algal bloom killed more than 10,000 fish and turned water bodies connected to the bay a shade of reddish brown. The bloom, which first appeared near Alameda and then spread to South San Francisco Bay and San Pablo Bay, was the largest in recorded history, according to the California Ocean Protection Council.

State regulators have taken notice. The San Francisco Regional Water Quality Control Board, which regulates the region’s 37 wastewater treatment plants, is scheduled to adopt this summer an updated watershed permit that will set targets for reducing nutrients in wastewater. The current permit, which the board adopted in 2019, required wastewater plants to track and report their nutrient discharge into the bay.

The next permit is still under development, but it is expected to give agencies 10 years to meet new thresholds for reducing nutrient loads in the region, said Lorien Fono, executive director of the Bay Area Clean Water Agencies, an association that helps coordinate the efforts of the Bay Area’s dozens of water control plants.

Fono, whose group has been discussing the new requirements with the water board, said the forthcoming watershed permit will create a nutrient limit that would be 50% lower than what the region experienced in the mid-2010’s, when the nutrient levels were at their peak. They have since been reduced by about 10%, she said.

The effort will be neither easy nor cheap, she said. BACWA estimates that it will cost about $11 billion to implement the needed improvements. This works out to about $4,000 per household using the entire system, the agency estimated.

With the upgrade effort, the Palo Alto plant is methodically preparing for this new, nutrient-light world order. The Embarcadero Way facility has already been treating sewage for ammonia since 1980, Allen said. Once the plant upgrade is completed, the plant would also remove between 50% and 60% of the nitrogen in local wastewater, helping to meet the new standards.

“Ammonia is toxic to fish so we’ve been removing ammonia but we don’t break down the nitrate — that goes out to the bay and it’s converted to nitrogen gas out there,” Allen said. “Now we have to take the nitrogen gas out here.”

Fono said that meeting the requirements of the new permit would require Bay Area plants to make the largest investment in wastewater infrastructure since the 1970s, when cities across the country were upgrading their plants to comply with the Clean Water Act. But unlike at that time, when the federal government made billions of dollars available in grant funding, the agencies don’t have any such funding sources.

Her agency is trying to coordinate the regional response. Its members include the five “principal members”: Central Contra Costa Sanitary District, East Bay Dischargers Authority, East Bay Municipal Utility District, the City and County of San Francisco, and the City of San Jose. Palo Alto, which is the sixth-largest water control district, is one of 12 “associate members,” while dozens of other cities and agencies, including the City of Mountain View, are affiliated members.

“This isn’t going to be a contentious permit, but we want to see a thoughtful and strategic approach because this is going to be extremely costly,” Fono said.

Local ratepayers will soon experience this firsthand. When the Palo Alto City Council adopts its new budget in July, it plans to raise wastewater rates by 15% to pay for the various capital improvements at the wastewater plant, which will add about $7.30 to the average monthly bill, according to utilities department staff.

Ratepayers should also expect rate hikes of 9% in each of the next two years followed by 8% and 7% increases in each of the following two, according to a rate forecast from the department. The main drivers are the need to replace aged sewer lines, to refill depleted financial reserves and to pay for debt services on the capital projects at the wastewater plant, according to staff.

Palo Alto isn’t the only agency that is investing in upgrades that aim to reduce nitrogen. The Oro Lomo Sanitary District in Alameda County, for example, recently completed an upgrade to its nutrient treatment process by installing a “sidestream treatment system” on its San Lorenzo plant. The process focuses on the nutrient-rich liquid that results from dewatering anaerobically digested biosolids, which involves microbes breaking down organic matter in the absence of air. Meanwhile, the Union Sanitary District is adding a process for biological nutrient removal at a cost of $509 million, according to a letter that Fono submitted to the water board in January year.

Both the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission and Silicon Valley Clean Water, which is based in Redwood City, are also pursuing sidestream treatment improvements, which are slated to be completed in 2026 and 2029, respectively.

Some districts, like East Bay Municipal Utility District, are trying to meet the nutrient mandate by updating existing infrastructure to maximize nutrient reduction, Fono said. Others are pursuing nutrient-reduction measures through projects that bring other benefits such as water purification. In these cases, the nutrient-reduction component is a happy byproduct that may be valuable but that isn’t as conspicuous as the other benefits.

“Frankly, the advantages of these expenditures aren’t going to be visible on a dayto-day basis by the community,” Fono said of the nutrient-reduction measures. “Assuming we don’t have perpetual algal blooms.”

Palo Alto is in the third category of agencies: those that are already upgrading aged infrastructure and are including nutrient reduction as part of those projects. As part of the pending upgrade, the aeration basins will be divided with concrete walls to create different zones. Some of these would operate without oxygen and will treat nitrogen, allowing the wastewater plant to reduce the nitrogen that gets emitted into the Bay by about half, according to the city.

The plant upgrade, which is being funded by Palo Alto and its partner cities and agencies, is the city’s first major foray into removing nitrogen, a nutrient that serves as food for the algal species Heterosigma akashiwo. Historically, the Bay region has seen relatively cloudy weather, which helps reduce algal blooms because plants need light to grow, Fono said. But thanks to a confluence of factors that include upstream dams and climate change, conditions have become clearer and more favorable to algal blooms, she said.

It’s not entirely clear what exactly the “safe” threshold is for nutrients in wastewater, she noted. But the algal bloom events in 2022 and 2023 are a sign that the region needs to do more.

“For 10 years we have been studying the science to understand the impacts of nutrients in the Bay,” Fono said. “This project is not complete. We know we want to start reducing nutrients but we don’t know what the safe levels are now.”

The aeration basin from which Allen describes the ongoing improvements represents the middle step in wastewater’s journey from the household to the Bay. After getting flushed down the toilet into the sewer system, the wastewater moves through “bar screens” where bars act like filters to remove roots, rags and other solid items. Pumps then send the wastewater into sedimentation tanks where smaller solids like hair and grease get skimmed off while thick sludge settles at the bottom.

As bottom-feeding sludge thickens into cakes and gets trucked out, the wastewater moves through the plant’s two “fixed film reactors,” rusty two-story towers that would be instantly recognizable to anyone walking near Byxbee Park. Inside are films of microorganisms that feast on the organic matter in the wastewater before it moves on to the bubbly aeration basins. Once the renovation is complete, the city hopes to decommission the fixed film reactors and transfer the entire process to the aeration basin area.

The wastewater then goes through further filtering, where layers of anthracite coal and sand remove small particles, before getting disinfected by ultraviolet light and discharging into the San Francisco Bay.

The sheer amount of processes and equipment that is packed into the plant makes the upgrade particularly complex, said Karin North, assistant director of the Department of Public Works. She and Allen likened the upgrade to keeping a patient alive during an open-heart surgery. Every time one aeration basin gets upgraded, the city has to move the pumps and shift the effluent into the other three tanks — a process that will take about five years to complete.

“Other treatment plants that have lots of open land may be able to do it more efficiently than faster than we can, but a lot of the plants in the Peninsula are constrained and it’s one of the complexity aspects of removing a new pollutant,” Allen said.

Allen called the $193-million upgrade of the secondary-treatment process the “largest project in the city’s history.” North noted that it will have taken about 15 years from the point when the city began designing these improvements to their actual completion.

“We’re in the middle of upgrading our facility while we’re running and operating it at the same time,” North said.

Critical to the process are the bubbles in the water, caused by pressurized air blowers about 15 feet below the surface and which prevent sludge from settling at the bottom of this tank. The air, according to the city, supports the microorganisms that remove ammonia and other dissolved solids.

In the future, Allen said, the basin will be equipped with a serpentine path, with some sections with the air off (anoxic zone) and others with the air on.

“We’ll be selecting for the different microorganisms in the different sections of the serpentine paths, in one section to break down ammonia … and in the next section break down the nitrogen,” Allen said.

Once the improvements are complete and the secondary treatment system is enhanced, the city expects nitrogen levels to drop by 50% to 60%. According to Allen, the plant discharged an average of just under 2,000 kilograms per day of total inorganic nitrogen between 2019 and 2023 during dry seasons, which go from May to November. That number has been rising, first to 2,181 kg in 2022 and then 2,277 kg per day in 2023, indicating nitrogen levels are currently rising.

Allen estimates that once the improvements are complete, the nitrogen levels are expected to go down to about 800 kg per day, well within the proposed threshold of the new permit.

“If we do our part, other agencies do their part, all the nitrogen in the Bay will drop and we won’t be at a tipping point causing algae blooms,” Allen said.
AISummary:

The $369-million upgrade to the treatment plant on Embarcadero Road is the city’s most expensive and most complex ongoing infrastructure project. Three tanks are currently filled, while the fourth basin sits empty as construction workers fortify its concrete base. The Bay Area Clean Water Agencies estimates that it will cost about $11 billion to implement the needed improvements. The next permit is still under development, but it is expected to give agencies 10 years to meet new thresholds for reducing nutrient loads in the region.

---

Headline: Will chain stores make a comeback in Palo Alto?
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/business/2024/03/28/will-chain-stores-make-a-comeback-in-palo-alto/
Date and Time: Mar 28, 2024 09:03 AM
Content:


Palo Alto leaders often profess their love of boutique shops and mom-and-pop businesses, but their attitude toward chain stores is far more complicated.

Even though the city boasts a variety of businesses that fall under the “formula retail” umbrella, including the CVS pharmacy on University Avenue, Peet’s Coffee at Town & Country Village and the McDonald’s on El Camino Real, council members rarely sing the praises of these establishments. In 2015, the Palo Alto City Council went as far as to ban any businesses from California Avenue that have 10 or more locations unless they receive conditional use permits, a process that can be lengthy and unpredictable.

But with the retail environment struggling, the city may now be changing its posture. As part of its ongoing effort to boost economic development, the city is now looking at revising a host of retail policies, including those that require ground-floor retail in commercial areas. Loosening restrictions on chain stores is on top of the list.

That’s according to the city’s Planning and Transportation Commission, which has been painstakingly reviewing in recent weeks a host of proposals from the city’s business consultants, Streetsense and Michael Baker Associates. During its March 27 review, the commission generally agreed that the city needs to take a fresh look at the formula retail ban and make it applicable only to restaurants — if at all.

The recommendation to loosen the restrictions was also proposed by Streetsense, which surveyed the city’s business environment last year and found that the city has about 461,000 square feet in vacant retail. The number has grown in recent years thanks to the rise of e-commerce and decline of office workers, with more people switching to hybrid or remote work schedules. Consultants suggest that the loss of office workers brings a loss of retail demand equivalent to 111,000 square feet.

Other factors also undoubtedly play a role. High rents and disputes with landlords have pushed some long-time businesses out, including Gourmet Franks at Stanford Shopping Center and Printers Cafe on California Avenue, according to the business owners. Property owners, meanwhile, claim that it’s not the rents that are driving the vacancies but grime and crime, which are deterring would-be tenants.

“I can’t tell you how many tenants we’re that want to come downtown, then they see our downtown and we lose them to Burlingame, to San Mateo, to Stanford,” Brad Ehikian, partner at Premier Properties, a major downtown property owner, said last week at a meeting of the council’s newly established Retail Committee.

The city council has taken notice and has recently directed staff to install new signs and better branding California Avenue and to do a better job in cleaning up downtown area. But while these efforts are advancing, the city is also plodding ahead with reducing regulatory hurdles to encourage businesses.

Commissioner Allen Akin, who serves on an ad hoc committee charged with looking at retail policies, said Wednesday that his group has been receiving feedback from stakeholders about what the city should do, which falls primarily into three categories: simplify the rules, reduce uncertainty and relax restrictions.

There was also broad consensus, he said, that the city should look at three specific policies: removing some — or all — restrictions on formula retail; limiting the areas in which the city’s retail-preservation ordinance applies; and passing code changes that give property owners flexibility to switch to other uses if market conditions change.

The first of those ideas received the most support among commissioners. Chair Doria Summa suggested that the city’s existing formula-retail law, which is based on whether a business has 10 locations across the nation, feels “arbitrary.” She argued, however, that if the city moves ahead with such a change, it needs to make sure that the new businesses remain consistent with the neighborhood-serving nature of California Avenue.

“Any formula retail on California Avenue would have to fit in with the rhythm and size of existing storefronts,” Summa said. “Just like McDonald’s — when they go into the Vatican or Paris or Rome, they don’t look like the McDonald’s on El Camino Real.”

Commissioner George Lu agreed that said that increasing the threshold from 10 locations would be a good start. Even though the city allows other uses through conditional use permits, the process is too risky, he said.

“If we can just relax this upfront, that would make a lot of sense to me,” Lu said.

Commissioners were somewhat less enthusiastic about revising retail-protection ordinance, a law that the council adopted in 2015 to bar conversion of ground-floor retail in commercial areas to other uses. The law, which applies citywide, was enacted shortly after numerous long-time businesses — including Fraiche Yogurt, Jungle Copy and Zibbibo — departed the downtown area and were replaced by tech startups or other offices.

The Streetsense report concluded that the ordinance “discourages the rightsizing of the City’s overall retail footprint, resulting in retail in areas with weaker market conditions and spreading the City’s retail footprint thin.”

While the current proposal wouldn’t entirely remove the ordinance, it would apply it more narrowly. The law would remain in effect in main commercial arteries such as University and California avenues. Other downtown streets, however, would no longer be bound by its restrictions. Commissioner Keith Reckdahl, who also serves on the retail committee, was among those who favored this approach.

“We may want to have different regulations for University and its side streets, or for California and Cambridge (avenues). If there are concerns about what you have on the main street, it doesn’t mean that you have to have the same concerns elsewhere,” Reckdahl said.

He acknowledged that removing the ordinance would be contentious. Some people love it, other people hate it, he said. But he suggested that allowing uses like dental offices on downtown streets outside University Avenue — for instance, Hamilton Avenue — would help support the retail environment because it would encourage people to come downtown for their medical appointments to stick around for the shopping and the dining.

“When we loosen the RPO, we aren’t necessarily allowing tech offices. We’d be expanding what we consider resident-serving businesses,” Reckdahl said.

The consultants had also recommended broader revisions to the city’s zoning code, which is riddled with overlay districts and inconsistencies about which types of uses are allowed in which district. The Streetsense study found that the existing layers of regulation “cause confusion among property owners, developers, and tenants when trying to understand what they are allowed to do on their property, which adds time to approval and permitting processes, increases risk, and may prevent improvements and/or occupancy entirely.”

“It is no surprise that the commercial districts experiencing the most difficulty recovering from the pandemic and experiencing the most vacancy include Palo Alto’s two most heavily regulated environments, Downtown Palo Alto and California Avenue,” the study found.

While this initiative is expected to take more time and resources than the prior two, a good start is to simply create a table of uses allowed in each district, said Dan Wery, a consultant with Michael Baker International. The effort should also include reducing redundancies in the zoning code and simplifying the rules, he said.

Rather than focus on what uses should be allowed in each area, the city could set a standard of whether business generates pedestrian activity, Wery said. Is the new business, for example, open to the public? Does it generate pedestrian traffic that may help other businesses? San Diego, for example, requires certain streets and districts to have “active street frontage” and provides some examples.

“Uses come and go, they evolve. Focus on the outcome that you want. You want activity. You want people going in and out of the door,” Wery said.



Correction: The story initially misidentified one of the locations that Brad Ehikian said Palo Alto is losing tenants to. It is Stanford.
AISummary:

Palo Alto is looking at revising a host of retail policies. Loosening restrictions on chain stores is on the top of the list. The city has about 461,000 square feet in vacant retail. The number has grown in recent years thanks to the rise of e-commerce and decline of office workers.. Property owners, meanwhile, claim that it’s not the rents that are driving the vacancies but grime and crime, which are deterring would-be tenants.

---

Headline: Plan to cut into El Camino Park for transit route faces resistance
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/stanford-university/2024/03/27/plan-to-cut-into-el-camino-park-for-transit-route-faces-resistance/
Date and Time: Mar 27, 2024 09:10 AM
Content:


A proposal by Stanford University to convert a strip of land of El Camino Park into a roadway for buses received a mixed reaction from the city’s Parks and Recreation Commission on March 26, with some members urging the university to replace the parkland that would be lost.

The plan, which Stanford and the Palo Alto city officials are looking to place on the November ballot, calls for “undedicating” about about 0.33 acres of land at the park to create a direct connection on Quarry Road for buses between the Palo Alto Transit Center and El Camino Real.

Currently, buses need to rely on University Avenue and University Circle to get to El Camino, a route that takes more time and creates congestion for other road users, project proponents say.

Leslie Lowe, Stanford’s director for transportation and environmental planning, said that buses currently take more than 1,200 daily trips on University Circle in both northbound and southbound directions. The Quarry Road link would reduce these trips by about 59%, she said, improving throughput on University Avenue and reducing emissions.

The change is expected to reduce bus trips by five to eight minutes, Lowe said. Some bus operators on the Marguerite system, which serves Stanford, would be able to take buses out of service because of the time savings.

“The bus would be able to do the route so much quicker, so they wouldn’t have to run as many buses,” Lowe said. “It’s huge savings.”

But while Stanford and the city’s Office of Transportation fully support the change, members of the parks commission had some concerns about losing parkland. Even though the roads would only take up about 0.24 acres in a largely unused portion of the 10.75-acre park, Shani Kleinhaus argued that these numbers downplay the project’s impact.

Stanford is also hoping to include a buffer zone as part of the park “undedication,” which would raise the amount of needed land to 0.33 acres. The location of the proposed road, she suggested, would also make a larger portion of the park inaccessible to visitors. The actual loss of “usable parkland” is about one acre, she said. 

She argued that as part of the project, Stanford should find an acre of space elsewhere that would be dedicated as parkland to compensate for the loss.

“Even if you plant some trees and make it nice for connectivity, that is good,” Kleinhaus said. “But we’re losing parkland, which is really, really precious, and the city keeps trying to get parkland and we’re losing parkland.

“Stanford should find a place to provide parkland — one acre.”

Commissioner Jeff Greenfield also called the loss of parkland a “big deal” in Palo Alto and suggested that finding land elsewhere could make the ballot initiative more palatable to voters. While undedicating parkland is extremely rare, it’s not unprecedented. In 2013, voters undedicated 10 acres of land in the Baylands so that the city can explore the construction of a waste-to-energy facility, a project that never came to fruition. Kristen O’Kane, director of the city’s Community Services Department, said this was the city’s only park-undedication vote since 2000.

“If there are opportunities to do some sort of a swap to … effectively barter some new parkland for the parkland we’re undedicating, I think that would significantly help get this passed,” Greenfield said.

But just like the 2013 measure created a rift between Palo Alto’s environmentalists, the new proposal is raising questions over whether it’s greener to preserve parkland or improve public transit circulation. Philip Kamhi, Palo Alto’s chief transportation official, argued that the proposed transit road would bring environmental benefits because it would reduce the distance buses would have to travel.

He pushed back against suggestions that Stanford should provide parkland at another site and argued that the project would bring “an environmental benefit, a public transit benefit and a local congestion benefit.”

“With the buses doing less travel in the area, the air quality actually improves, even with existing fleets,” Kamhi said, noting that most bus operators will soon be required to go fully electric. “So this proposes a pathway with less vehicular travel, in particular for uses in this area, because they’re doing less turning movements.”

While the commission didn’t take any votes on the project, most members acknowledged the project’s benefits, including the proposed bike and pedestrian paths that would accompany the road improvements. Commission Chair Amanda Brown shared Kleinhaus’ concerns about the new road cutting off access to a larger part of the park but also touted the circulation improvements that the project would bring.

“Whether or not it’s suitable or not, it does slice right in the middle of a site, so I understand the tradeoffs,” Brown said. “It does provide more access to parkland, so that I’m all for.”

The city has until Aug. 9 to place the measure on the November ballot.
AISummary:

Stanford and the Palo Alto city officials are looking to place on the November ballot, calls for “undedicating’ about about 0.33 acres of land at El Camino Park. The plan would create a direct connection on Quarry Road for buses to get between the Transit Center and the park. The change is expected to reduce bus trips by five to eight minutes, Stanford’s director for transportation and environmental planning said. Some members of the parks commission had some concerns about losing parkland.

---

Headline: Caltrain seeks new space for headquarters
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/peninsula/2024/03/27/caltrain-seeks-new-space-for-headquarters/
Date and Time: Mar 27, 2024 08:58 AM
Content:


Caltrain is looking for a new home. 

The popular commuter rail line that brings 20,000 riders to 28 points between San Francisco and San Jose, with extensions to Gilroy, has been sharing its headquarters with SamTrans since the 1990s. SamTrans, San Mateo County’s bus system, is moving in 2025 to a new office space near the Millbrae Caltrain station. It has invited its roommate to co-locate, but Caltrain is shopping around first. 

Owned and operated by the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, Caltrain has been serving the region since 1991, and as an organization since 1863, according to a statement Monday. The oldest continually operating rail system west of the Mississippi River, it is planning to electrify by 2024. 

Currently, there are 78 Caltrain staff, but they expect to grow to 177 over time so they are looking for a space of about 20,000 to 30,000 square feet, for a five- to 10-year lease. Top locations, considering distance to stations and amenities like shops and restaurants, include San Francisco, Millbrae, Redwood City and San Mateo. 

Caltrain is soliciting offers. A single PDF submission should be sent to HQ-RFI@Caltrain.com by 1 p.m. on April 22.
AISummary:

Caltrain has been sharing its headquarters with SamTrans since the 1990s. SamTrans, San Mateo County’s bus system, is moving in 2025 to a new office space near the Millbrae Caltrain station. Caltrain is looking for a space of about 20,000 to 30,000 square feet, for a five- to 10-year lease. Top locations, considering distance to stations and amenities like shops and restaurants, include San Francisco, MillBrae, Redwood City andSan Mateo.

---

Headline: Pat Showalter takes up the helm again as Mountain View’s mayor
URL: https://www.mv-voice.com/city-government/2024/03/26/pat-showalter-takes-up-the-helm-again-as-mountain-views-mayor/
Date and Time: Mar 26, 2024 01:18 PM
Content:


It’s not often that a person gets to be the mayor of Mountain View once, let alone twice. But Pat Showalter has held this distinction for the second time now, and is ready to make a lasting impression with goals to build more housing, plant more trees and protect the city from rising sea levels.

Showalter first took up the mantle of mayor in 2016 following her election to the City Council in 2014. Although it was not that long ago, Mountain View looked very different back then, she said. The city was booming with construction and development potential. “The pressure to build was really, really strong. And also, the need to build housing was really strong,” Showalter said.

A decade later, Showalter still sees immense need for housing, but the landscape has shifted since the pandemic. The city’s office vacancy rate hovers around 20%, signaling a possible downturn. The city has often leveraged concessions from developers, approving office projects in exchange for more housing, but this is less certain now.

“We don’t know how that’s going to shake out in terms of (whether) the large corporations want to continue building offices here. They’ve kind of used offices as the currency for building housing,” Showalter said.

Another noticeable difference, since the last time she was mayor, is the way people interact with the environment, Showalter said. The use of neighborhood parks increased fourfold during the pandemic, in part because there was really nowhere else to go. People now are much more appreciative of outdoor spaces, Showalter said.

In terms of both housing and parks, Showalter is pushing to build more at a faster clip. The city is making inroads with its housing goals, but she would like to see it move more quickly from the funding stages to actual construction.

On this front, Showalter was eager to share that The Crestview Hotel, a permanent supportive housing community, is slated to open later this year. Another 100% affordable housing development, located at Terra Bella Avenue, also is expected to break ground, hopefully soon, Showalter said.

But while housing has always been a high priority for Showalter, there is a good chance her legacy will be defined more by her environmental advocacy. As a civil engineer, Showalter has spent decades working on issues related to groundwater management, first with the USGS in the 1980s and more recently the Santa Clara Valley Water District. To say that her knowledge of water runs deep is an understatement.

Showalter wants to raise the community’s awareness about climate change and its implications for sea-level rise. Mountain View has a protection plan in place, although it is not well known, Showalter said. Sea-level rise will hit the North Bayshore area most severely, affecting some houses on the edges of the flood zones, as well as a large number of office complexes.

But its impact on major transportation routes, like Highway 101, will be even bigger, making it difficult for people to get to work. “It’s very technical but we’ve mapped all of that so we know where it is, and we’re taking it very seriously,” Showalter said.

The restoration of Mountain View’s coastal wetlands, which will help mitigate the effects of sea-level rise, also ranked high on Showalter’s list of projects. About 15,000 acres of salt ponds, most of which are in the South Bay, are being restored to their native habitats, including two ponds north of Shoreline Regional Park and Stevens Creek.

Some of the salt ponds will remain mudflats, as they accommodate endangered species. But others will become marshes, which Showalter likened to “Mother Nature’s sponges” because they absorb a lot of water and energy. “They’re just fabulous for the habitat, great for birds and fishes and amphibians. And so, we’re really blessed to be circled by those,” she said.

A self-described “policy wonk,” Showalter laid out other initiatives that also will prepare Mountain View for a future of climate change. She highlighted the city’s active transportation plan, which promotes walking and bicycling, and will help the city reach its carbon neutrality goals by 2045, if not sooner.

Mountain View has long promoted itself as a “pedestrian friendly city,” even before it knew what that meant, Showalter said, referring to her work with the Environmental Planning Commission in the 1990s. But now the city has identified gaps in its bicycle and pedestrian networks, with a plan to address these within the next five to 10 years so that everyone can feel comfortable getting around without a car, Showalter said.

The loss of tree canopy, weakened by drought spells, also weighed heavily on Showalter, who wants the city to plant a lot more trees to help address climate change. “It’s going to be warmer. We’re going to need more shady trees, people are going to need places to escape from the heat more frequently than has been the case in Mountain View,” she said.

As mayor, Showalter said she was pleased to step up to do the job, although also recognized that she was just one vote out of seven council members. This time around, her expectations are more tempered. “It’s kind of like turning a battleship. You can help to turn it a little bit, but you’re not going to make huge strides,” she said.

Still, Showalter was ready to dig in her heels to advocate for policies and plans that will protect the community in the long term, especially when it comes to climate change. “I’m just determined to do my best to see that the sea-level rise protection plan doesn’t just sit on the shelf (but) it actually gets built,” she said.
AISummary:

Pat Showalter is the mayor of Mountain View for the second time. She wants to build more housing, plant more trees and protect the city from rising sea levels. She also wants to raise the community’s awareness about climate change and its implications for sea-level rise. The restoration of the city's coastal wetlands is also high on her list of projects. The city has identified gaps in its bicycle and pedestrian networks, with a plan to address these within the next five to 10 years.

---

Headline: Katie Causey announces bid for Palo Alto City Council
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-politics/2024/03/26/katie-causey-announces-bid-for-palo-alto-city-council/
Date and Time: Mar 26, 2024 09:49 AM
Content:


Katie Causey, a Palo Alto resident and community organizer, became the first candidate on March 26 to declare candidacy for the Palo Alto City Council.

Causey, who serves on the city’s Human Relations Commission, is known for her roles at various local nonprofits, including the Palo Alto Renters’ Association, a group that was formed to assist local tenants and that was recently absorbed into the broader pro-housing nonprofit, Palo Alto Forward. Her full-time job is as a community organizer for the Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition.

Causey said it was her experiences in helping the tenants who were facing eviction from Layne Court homes in 2022 — and the council’s response to those evictions — that propelled her to run. The evictions at Layne Court were among the factors that prompted the council to pass a new law in February 2022 that expanded the types of housing that would be eligible for relocation assistance.

“I had just been talking with the community members, neighbor after neighbor, and they were largely seniors who had lived there for 30 years or more,” Causey said in an interview. “They had nowhere to go.”

“And I saw that overnight the council was able to pass this policy and the difference that this made — how that slowed people’s eviction and made a massive difference in people’s lives.”

Housing, she said, would be a top priority if elected. This means not just below-market-rate housing, which everyone on the council agrees is desperately needed, but residential development that targets higher income levels as well.

She also wants to focus on sustainability, which means fixing up sidewalks and making local roads safer for cyclists and pedestrians.

“That means we need roads that aren’t too dangerous for neighbors who walk or bike along them; that we don’t have narrow, cracked sidewalks preventing neighbors with wheelchairs or mobility aids from using them,” Causey said in a statement. “When a road is safe for a 60-year-old in a wheelchair, it’s safe for a 6-year-old on a bike. That’s how we lead on combating climate change — with safe, sustainable infrastructure.”

Causey said that as a council member, she would be committed to creating a more inclusive community. This includes, among other things, organizing Palo Alto’s first LGBTQ+ Pride celebration. Currently, residents need to go to other cities to take part in pride celebrations, she said. Holding a downtown pride parade would not only make more people feel included but it would also enliven the city’s commercial areas.

“Palo Alto is a diverse city; all our community members deserve to feel seen, safe, and celebrated,” she said in her announcement. “Especially in light of rising loneliness, it’s more important than ever that we invest in spaces for community members to come together and strengthen cultural bonds.”

That means we need roads that aren’t too dangerous for neighbors who walk or bike along them; that we don’t have narrow, cracked sidewalks preventing neighbors with wheelchairs or mobility aids from using them. When a road is safe for a 60-year-old in a wheelchair, it’s safe for a 6-year-old on a bike. That’s how we lead on combating climate change — with safe, sustainable infrastructure.”

Causey said she has been interested in volunteering since she was a student at Palo Alto High School, where she joined Key Club and partook in activities like Baylands cleanup days and playground repairs. She went on to George Washington University, where she earned a degree in women’s studies.

She ran for a seat on the Palo Alto Unified School District Board of Trustees in 2020 and fell just short, finishing fourth in a race for three open seats.

She is the first candidate to announce a bid for a council that will see four seats up for grabs in November. Council members Lydia Kou and Greg Tanaka are both concluding their second consecutive terms this year and will term out. Mayor Greer Stone and Council member Pat Burt are both concluding their current terms but are eligible to run again.

Causey has already secured the endorsements of elected officials outside Palo Alto, many of whom have been on the frontlines of encouraging housing in their own communities. These include former Redwood City Mayor Giselle Hale, Mountain View council members Lucas Ramirez and Emily Ann Ramos, East Palo Alto Mayor Antonio Lopez and California State Board of Equalization Member Sally Lieber.
AISummary:

Katie Causey is the first candidate to declare candidacy for the Palo Alto City Council. Causey, who serves on the city’s Human Relations Commission, is known for her roles at various local nonprofits. Her full-time job is as a community organizer for the Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition. Council members Lydia Kou and Greg Tanaka are both concluding their second consecutive terms this year and are eligible to run again. The council will see four seats up for grabs in November, with three open seats.

---

Headline: New group to weigh higher salaries for Palo Alto council
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-government/2024/03/26/new-group-to-weigh-higher-salaries-for-palo-alto-council/
Date and Time: Mar 26, 2024 08:54 AM
Content:


Fresh off approving higher compensation for themselves, Palo Alto City Council members charted on March 25 a path toward another salary hike.

By a 4-3 vote, the city council agreed to create a citizen committee that will be charged with evaluating whether the city should raise compensation for council members and, if so, by how much. The group will consist of seven members, four of whom would be former council members. It will not be able to independently pass raises, but would make recommendations for a potential voter-passed raise beyond the city’s current limit.

In creating the new group, the council veered away from a recommendation from its Policy and Services Committee, which called for a 15-member group that broadly represents the community. Council members also rejected an earlier proposal from Vice Mayor Ed Lauing that all seven members of the committee be appointed by the mayor. It was Lauing and Mayor Greer Stone who last year authored a memo urging higher compensation for council members.

Instead, current council members will each get to appoint one person to the new committee.

Not every member, however, is eager to use this privilege. In a possible preview of a future election debate, Palo Alto council members sparred over the nature of public service and split over whether it’s appropriate to approve salary increases in such quick succession.

Just two weeks ago, the council voted to raise its salaries from $1,000 to $1,600 per month, the maximum allowed under state law for a city of its size (the action will become finalized on April 1 after a “second reading”). As a charter city, however, Palo Alto doesn’t have to follow this limit. While current local law pegs council salaries to the state limit, council can change that through a vote of the people.

The four council members who supported the new committee, Mayor Greer Stone, Vice Mayor Ed Lauing and council members Julie Lythcott-Haims and Vicki Veenker, had no problem with asking the committee — and ultimately, the populace — to weigh in on future salary increases. Much like at past discussions, they argued that raising council salaries is important to attract candidates who otherwise would not be able to afford to serve.

Lythcott-Haims estimated that a council member who spends 25 hours per week on city business get a salary that is equivalent to about $10 per hour. For those who spend 40 hours, the pay is $6.25 per hour, she said.

“The city has over 1,000 employees and seven make less than minimum wage,” Lythcott-Haims said. “Therefore, the council is a position a person can’t remotely contemplate going for if they have to earn a living to pay the bills.”

The three council members who opposed the motion — Pat Burt, Lydia Kou and Greg Tanaka – pushed back against her characterization. Kou called serving on the council a “public service” and said it had never entered her mind that she would be drawing a salary. Burt said that’s consistent with how most people have traditionally viewed council service.

“We had a longtime outlook that these are volunteer positions and that we’re public servants not politicians,” Burt said.

Burt argued that raising council compensation should not be a council priority. In fact, just before the salary debate the council concluded adopting a list of 76 projects that it wants to work on in 2024 to support its priorities. Salary hikes, notably, was not on the list.

The timing, Burt suggested, is also less than ideal. In addition to raising monthly salaries from $1,000 to $1,600, the council is also preparing to approve in the coming months a stipend program that provides $2,000 to each member for technology and communication equipment.

If the issue ends up on this year’s ballot — which may be a long-shot proposition given the looming August deadline and Palo Alto’s passion for process — it would have to compete with two other possible measures: one that would make a strip of land at El Camino Park eligible for a new transit road and another that would allow Palo Alto residents to directly elect their mayor.

“I don’t think this will have great support from the public, and I don’t want it to undermine more important ballot measures going forward,” Burt said. “Even if we have these guard rails to try to make it not appear self-serving, I’m concerned the voters will perceive it that way.”

Tanaka, who has consistently opposed raising council salaries, also rejected the idea that council service should be treated like a job. The proposition to raise council salaries feels particularly off just after the council approved 60% raises for its members. The planned ballot measure, he said, would potentially raise salaries to a higher level than has ever been contemplated in the past.

“It starts creating a professional political class and I don’t know if it’s served better that way or served better by people who have less financial interest in being on council,” Tanaka said.

Those who supported the measure, however, wanted to keep open the possibility of getting the issue on this year’s ballot. Lauing suggested that having the mayor appoint all members of the committee would expedite things and give the council a chance to make the August deadline. Lythcott-Haims agreed, though she ultimately modified the proposal to allow each council member to appoint someone to the new committee.

“In terms of timing of getting something on the ballot, an expeditious process serves us,” Lythcott-Haims said.
AISummary:

Palo Alto City Council members voted to create a citizen committee. The group will be charged with evaluating whether the city should raise compensation for council members. Two weeks ago, the council voted to raise its salaries from $1,000 to £1,600 per month. As a charter city, Palo Alto doesn’t have to follow this limit, but council can change that through a vote of the people. The council is also preparing to approve in the coming months a stipend program that provides $2,000 for each member.

---

Headline: Showers expected in North Bay by Wednesday, more snow in Sierra
URL: https://www.mv-voice.com/weather/2024/03/25/showers-expected-in-north-bay-by-wednesday-more-snow-in-sierra/
Date and Time: Mar 25, 2024 05:20 PM
Content:


Don’t be completely fooled by more sun and slightly warming temperatures on Monday, as chances of showers will roll back around the Bay Area by Wednesday, with more snow coming to the Sierra. 

Daytime highs are expected to be in the upper 50s to lower 60s on the coast and around the bay, and in the 60s inland. 

Overnight lows will be mostly in the 40s, with some areas reaching the 50s A cold front is expected to start rolling through Northern California by Wednesday. 

Skies will remain dry at least Monday and Tuesday. Then unsettled conditions push back through by Wednesday and Thursday, with chances of showers in the North Bay. Those showers could spread south and east throughout the day and will likely linger through Thursday. 

The National Weather Service said two more systems will bring periods of moderate to heavy snow to the Sierra on Wednesday night through Thursday, and again Friday through Saturday morning. 

Forecasters say to be prepared for periods of mountain travel delays, snow-covered roads, and chain controls, though the exact timing is uncertain. The NWS said between Wednesday and Saturday, the highest Sierra peaks could see as much as three feet of new snow, with another 1 to 2 feet above 5,500 feet.
AISummary:

Temperatures are expected to be in the upper 50s to lower 60s on the coast and around the bay, and in the 60s inland. A cold front is expected to start rolling through Northern California by Wednesday. Two more systems will bring periods of moderate to heavy snow to the Sierra on Wednesday night through Thursday, and again Friday through Saturday morning. Between Wednesday and Saturday, the highest Sierra peaks could see as much as three feet of new snow, with another 1 to 2 feet above 5,500 feet.

---

Headline: State bill prompts Peninsula cities to revaluate city council pay
URL: https://www.mv-voice.com/city-government/2024/03/25/state-bill-prompts-peninsula-cities-to-revaluate-city-council-pay/
Date and Time: Mar 25, 2024 02:32 PM
Content:


Being a city council member can sometimes mean a full-time commitment for less than part-time pay. Senate Bill 329, signed in June 2023 by Gov. Gavin Newsom, aims to address this by increasing pay caps for local elected officials. Many cities on the Peninsula have already responded by raising city council compensation, while other cities, like Menlo Park, are looking to do the same. 

The bill gives cities a one-time opportunity to “reset” city council compensation to keep up with inflation and help improve diversity on councils statewide. This is the first time that the compensation limits for California city council members have been updated since 1984. 

“No one runs for city council to get rich,” said State Sen. Bill Dodd, the author of the bill, in a statement released when it was signed this past summer. California State Conference of the NAACP and the League of California Cities, among other groups, supported by the bill. “But the low levels of pay make it much harder to balance careers and personal obligations with the calling to serve their community. It’s especially hard for working people and those from diverse or disadvantaged backgrounds.” 

The passage of SB 329 has already prompted several cities around the Bay Area to look at increasing pay for their city council members. Since the bill was passed, Belmont, Los Altos, Palo Alto, San Carlos and San Mateo have increased monthly compensation for their council members. 

In 2014, Mountain View voters passed Measure A, which bumped up the salaries of its city council members from $600 to $1,000 per month, along with automatic adjustments each year based on the rate of inflation. A previous effort in 2006 to raise salaries to $1,500 was narrowly defeated at the ballot box.

Menlo Park may soon join the other Peninsula cities that have already increased their councilors’ pay. During a March 12 meeting, the Menlo Park City Council received an informational brief about the history of its council pay increases, and the possible benefits and impacts of increasing City Council compensation. 

SB 329 allows for different pay caps based on the population of the city, ranging from $950 monthly in cities with fewer than 35,000 residents, to $3,200 monthly in cities where the population exceeds 250,000. City councils can still increase compensation beyond the limits of this initial “reset,” but future pay hikes are not to exceed 5% each year, or the rate of yearly inflation as determined by the California Consumer Price Index, whichever is greater. Menlo Park’s population of 32,475 residents means that the city falls under the $950 monthly pay limit.

Under the previous compensation structure for California city council members, council stipends for cities with under 35,000 residents were limited to $300 per month. There were only minimal allowances for adjustments to keep up with inflation, which has risen over 300% since limits were last set in 1984. 

In a comment made during the March 12 meeting, Menlo Park City Council member Maria Doerr pointed out just how far Menlo Park City Council compensation has fallen behind inflation. 

“In November 1965, the amount per month for City Council was $150,” she said. “I enjoy looking at inflation calculators, and I was curious: What does $150 in 1965 mean today? Today, that would be $1,482 per month. … What about in November 2000 when it was set at $640 a month? That in today’s dollars would be $1,169.”

Currently, Menlo Park council members are paid $640 monthly, for a total of $7,680 yearly. They are also eligible for retirement and health care benefits, which are not counted when determining pay under SB 329. 

The Menlo Park City Council has not voted to increase their compensation since the year 2000. If Menlo Park elects to pay each council member the maximum monthly stipend that is now allowed, each would make $11,400 yearly, which would cost the city $57,000 annually. This would be a 66% pay increase.

Compensation for Menlo Park City Council members currently ranks near the middle of other similarly sized cities on the Peninsula. The highest paid city council in the region is Colma’s, where council members make $961 monthly. Whereas some city councils, such as in Atherton, Portola Valley and Woodside, operate on a volunteer basis and are uncompensated. 

Despite the low monthly pay, the job of a city council member, even in a smaller city, is often a very demanding one.

“There have been weeks when the job has been more than full time,” said Menlo Park City Council member Jen Wolosin in an email to this news organization. “Duties include constituent services, meetings with staff and stakeholders, policy research, regional board and committee meetings, meeting preparation and more.” 

Other Menlo Park City Council members agree that high demands are often placed on their time, which can discourage people from running for office. 

“On average you’re looking at 10 to 20 hours per week — I think even 10 hours is being very conservative,” said Menlo Park Vice Mayor Drew Combs. “It is a really big time commitment, and it is to some degree elevated volunteerism. For a lot of people there isn’t the ability to fit the job in their lives when they don’t get compensated for it. … The system we have is certainly one that by default excludes a lot of people.”

Combs has even taken time away from his full-time job to attend to his council duties. 

“That has been a standard part of my service in this role,” he said. “And I have dialed into meetings from vacation with my family. I have dialed in some cases from work trips too.”

‘That has been a standard part of my service in this role. And I have dialed into meetings from vacation with my family. I have dialed in some cases from work trips too.’

The people who are most discouraged from running for office by time commitments and low pay tend to be “low-income residents, single parents, people of color and young people,” according to a statement released by the League of California Cities. 

Some Bay Area council members have even resigned before the end of their terms, citing high cost of living, low pay and the need to support their families. 

In cities like Atherton where cost of living is extraordinarily high and council members are not compensated, the pool of candidates may be limited to an even greater extent. 

When asked whether compensating council members would open up the opportunity to serve to more people, Atherton Mayor Diana Hawkins-Manuelian said in an email “practically speaking, having this be a non-paid job, limits it to those who can afford to work without pay and have the time to attend meetings. I was thrilled that we recently brought on Stacy Holland Miles to the council. She is a mom of a toddler. She brings a refreshingly different perspective and lived experience to the council. Perhaps having it be a paid position may allow more and different types of people to do this work.”

Deputy City Manager/City Clerk Anthony Suber said that the town’s “council members all have a profound commitment to public service.”

Menlo Park City Council members are excited about the prospect of higher compensation opening up the role to more people.

During the March 12 City Council meeting, Doerr said: “I’m excited for parents to be able to serve on council, folks from diverse socioeconomic backgrounds to be able to serve on council, and was excited to see that this is an opportunity to look at compensation for council members moving forward.”

‘I’m excited for parents to be able to serve on council, folks from diverse socioeconomic backgrounds to be able to serve on council, and was excited to see that this is an opportunity to look at compensation for council members moving forward.’

However, in an area where cost of living is so high, some contend that looking at compensation alone may not go far enough. Combs remarked that looking at other aspects of the job in addition to compensation may help to attract more diverse candidates for local office in Menlo Park. 

“I think compensation is one piece of it, but I would really like to see these positions become more attractive to a more diverse array of folks in our community,” he said. “I don’t know exactly how that happens, whether it’s compensation, or greater management of time commitment, or some combination of things. It’s a weakness of the system that so few talented, smart and passionate folks are able to take on this position.”

Though the hours are long and the pay is low, many city council members do their work primarily because it is important to them.

“For many of us it’s a labor of love for our community,” said Wolosin. “Sadly, not everyone who may be interested in serving has the flexibility, support and resources to do so.” 

Hawkins-Manuelian feels similarly, saying in an email: “The Atherton council do this work as a form of community service and philanthropy. That means more of the city funds go directly to spending on the city. I find this work time consuming, but very personally rewarding.”

Menlo Park city staff plan to host a city council compensation study session to explore the possibility of increasing pay for the city’s council members. Any increase of pay that may be adopted would go into effect in November 2024, when city council elections are held, or later. 
AISummary:

Senate Bill 329, signed in June 2023 by Gov. Gavin Newsom, aims to address this by increasing pay caps for local elected officials. Many cities on the Peninsula have already responded by raising city council compensation, while other cities, like Menlo Park, are looking to do the same. This is the first time that the compensation limits for California city council members have been updated since 1984. City councils can still increase compensation beyond the limits of this initial “reset,” but future pay hikes are not to exceed 5% each year, or the rate of yearly inflation.

---

Headline: City co-sponsors first annual iftar dinner
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/community/2024/03/25/city-co-sponsors-first-inaugural-iftar-dinner/
Date and Time: Mar 25, 2024 12:06 PM
Content:


Last week, the city of Palo Alto got together with its Muslim community to co-sponsor and co-host its first official iftar dinner at Lucie Stern Community Center. The event offered an opportunity to gather, volunteer and support one another during the month of Ramadan, when many Muslims fast for most of the day. 

Among the 270 attendees at the event were Palo Alto Mayor Greer Stone, council members, school board trustees and community leaders.

The food was donated by several local Muslim-owned restaurants — Zareen’s, Mediterranean Wraps, Anatolian Kitchen, Cafe 220, Oklava Cafe, Arya Steakhouse, Meyhouse, Backyard Brew and Sultana Mediterranean. The musician for the evening was guitarist Brother Khalil Abdullah.

In the spirit of community service that is part of the Muslim faith, attendees helped create hygiene kits for the Ecumenical Hunger Program, an East Palo Alto-based nonprofit that regularly provides food to low-income families in the area.

A few local students and their parents took to the stage to speak about Ramadan traditions, their personal experiences of embracing their Muslim identity, and the importance of inclusivity in classrooms.

“Many of us post October 7 felt scared to be Muslim in Palo Alto,” said Ahmed Datoo, tech entrepreneur and Palo Alto resident, in a speech denouncing the rise of Islamophobia in the city in the wake of the Israel-Hamas war. He also spoke about the simultaneous rise of antisemitism and anti-Middle East and North Africa sentiments that feed the same cycle of hate.

“This notion of community and empathy gives us an obligation, a responsibility to speak up for injustice wherever it may happen,” he said. “We’re stronger as one community as opposed to being divided.”

Datoo, who was born in Tanzania, grew up in New Jersey and came to California as a Stanford student in 1991. Back then, he would break his Ramadan fast by himself in his dorm room.

“It just felt very, very lonely,” he said later in the evening, in conversation with the Weekly. “I feel heartened by coming here tonight and seeing so many different Muslims, non-Muslims breaking bread together. Things have come a long way since I first got out here.”

Stone said he is eager to assuage feelings of mistrust within the community and contribute towards what he calls “a healing process,” that starts with multi-faith and multi-cultural events of this kind.

During his speech, Stone shared that he was introduced to Ramadan customs and traditions as a child thanks to his best friend, a practicing Muslim with whom he went to school at Greene Middle School (then Jordan Middle School), and then Palo Alto High School.

“I don’t think healing and community building is top-down; it has to be bottom-up. Events like this allow us to break bread together, be reminded of our shared humanity, of our love of food and music, and be able to meet each other’s children,” Stone told the Weekly. “It’s nothing that council can do, or really anyone else; it’s going to be us as neighbors reaching out and opening up our hearts with each other and becoming friends again.”

Stone said he was particularly moved by a conversation he had with a 6th grader at the event who told him why the evening was special for her. “She talked about how she sees the Christmas tree at Christmas time and that she has never seen an event that celebrated her religion and her culture,” he said. “I apologized to her on behalf of the city and asked her — what can we do more to be able to make sure that she sees herself reflected in our community? I think we just need to engage people in more conversations.”
AISummary:

The city of Palo Alto co-hosted its first official iftar dinner last week. The event offered an opportunity to gather, volunteer and support one another. The food was donated by several local Muslim-owned restaurants. In the spirit of community service, attendees helped create hygiene kits for the Ecumenical Hunger Program, an East Palo Alto-based nonprofit that regularly provides food to low-income families. A few local students and their parents took to the stage to speak about Ramadan traditions and the importance of embracing their Muslim identity.

---

Headline: Palo Alto considers sacrificing park space to build a bus road in partnership with Stanford
URL: https://www.mv-voice.com/transportation/2024/03/25/should-parkland-make-way-for-a-transit-road/
Date and Time: Mar 25, 2024 08:56 AM
Content:


As Palo Alto officials look for ways to add parks to accommodate new housing developments, they are also working with Stanford University on a project that appears to move in the other direction: converting a portion of El Camino Park into a roadway for buses.

The plan, which Palo Alto and Stanford University have been discussing for years, would create a direct connection between the city’s bustling transit center on University Avenue and El Camino Real, saving drivers and passengers time getting to and from the major corridor. Doing that, however, would require “undedicating” a 0.33-acre strip of land on the eastern edge of El Camino Park, which entails a public vote.

The city and the university have been discussing the project since at least 2011, when they signed a development agreement that allowed for an expansion and reconstruction of various Stanford University Medical Center facilities. As part of that deal, Stanford pledged to transfer money to the city to improve connections between the new buildings and local streets. If the project moves forward, Stanford would foot the $3.2-million bill for the new road, which would stretch from the western edge of the bus depot to El Camino.

According to a new report from Philip Kamhi, the city’s chief transportation official, the new roadway would allow bus drivers to avoid circling back through University Circle to get to El Camino, saving them between five and eight minutes per trip. Stanford would be the primary beneficiary. While about 600 buses serve the Palo Alto Transit Center daily, about half of them are the university’s Marguerite shuttles.

Other agencies that rely on the downtown transit center include SamTrans, Santa Clara Valley Transit Authority and Dumbarton Express.

The city’s capital budget underscores Stanford University’s lead role in both funding the infrastructure improvements and in seeking a ballot measure to make the land available. According to the budget, the university had already spent about $1.2 million on planning and design. If things go as planned, it will spend another $1.9 million on construction in fiscal year 2025, which begins on July 1 this year.

While the university may be driving the project, the Palo Alto City Council is fully on board. Palo Alto’s chief planning document, the Comprehensive Plan, includes a program that explicitly calls for collaborating with Stanford and transit agencies to “pursue improvements to the Palo Alto Transit Center area aimed at enhancing the pedestrian experience and improving circulation and access for all modes, including direct access to El Camino Real for transit vehicles.”

The Quarry Road project, according to Kamhi, would include bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure improvements such as an upgraded crosswalk at El Camino to reduce crossing time and safety measures such as refuge islands and high-visibility bicycle markings. One detail that remains unresolved is on whether it would be a two-way road or an outbound-only transit lane, according to Kamhi’s report.

The city currently leases El Camino Park from Stanford under an agreement set to expire in 2042. Palo Alto had “dedicated” the park for recreational and conservation purposes, which means that any other use would require approval from majority of the voters.

Kamhi noted that the portion of the 10.75-acre part that would need to be dedicated make up about 0.33 acres, which includes an 0.09-acre buffer zone. The portion of the park that would be replaced with a transit way is “underused” and “passive,” he noted. It does not have any playing fields but it does provide “circulation throughput that serves the park.”

If approved, the project would also require removal of about 15 trees, according to the report. And while Palo Alto residents are generally passionate about the topics of tree removal and reduction of park space, Kamhi argues in the report that the proposed transit road is “akin to a park improvement project in that it improves multi-modal movement to and through the park.”

“The proposed transit connection would enhance the use and enjoyment of El Camino Park and the recreational amenities provided to the residents of Palo Alto and the surrounding communities,” Kamhi wrote.

The city’s Parks and Recreation Commission is scheduled to get an update on the project at its March 26 meeting. It will ultimately be up to the city council to decide whether or not to place this issue on the November ballot.
AISummary:

Palo Alto and Stanford University are working on a plan to convert a portion of El Camino Park into a roadway for buses. The plan would create a direct connection between the city’s bustling transit center on University Avenue and ElCamino Real. Stanford would foot the $3.2-million bill for the new road, which would stretch from the western edge of the bus depot to the park. If approved, the project would also require removal of about 15 trees, according to the report.

---

Headline: Should parkland make way for a transit road?
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/03/25/should-parkland-make-way-for-a-transit-road/
Date and Time: Mar 25, 2024 08:56 AM
Content:


As Palo Alto officials look for ways to add parks to accommodate new housing developments, they are also working with Stanford University on a project that appears to move in the other direction: converting a portion of El Camino Park into a roadway for buses.

The plan, which Palo Alto and Stanford University have been discussing for years, would create a direct connection between the city’s bustling transit center on University Avenue and El Camino Real, saving drivers and passengers time getting to and from the major corridor. Doing that, however, would require “undedicating” a 0.33-acre strip of land on the eastern edge of El Camino Park, which entails a public vote.

The city and the university have been discussing the project since at least 2011, when they signed a development agreement that allowed for an expansion and reconstruction of various Stanford University Medical Center facilities. As part of that deal, Stanford pledged to transfer money to the city to improve connections between the new buildings and local streets. If the project moves forward, Stanford would foot the $3.2-million bill for the new road, which would stretch from the western edge of the bus depot to El Camino.

According to a new report from Philip Kamhi, the city’s chief transportation official, the new roadway would allow bus drivers to avoid circling back through University Circle to get to El Camino, saving them between five and eight minutes per trip. Stanford would be the primary beneficiary. While about 600 buses serve the Palo Alto Transit Center daily, about half of them are the university’s Marguerite shuttles.

Other agencies that rely on the downtown transit center include SamTrans, Santa Clara Valley Transit Authority and Dumbarton Express.

The city’s capital budget underscores Stanford University’s lead role in both funding the infrastructure improvements and in seeking a ballot measure to make the land available. According to the budget, the university had already spent about $1.2 million on planning and design. If things go as planned, it will spend another $1.9 million on construction in fiscal year 2025, which begins on July 1 this year.

While the university may be driving the project, the Palo Alto City Council is fully on board. Palo Alto’s chief planning document, the Comprehensive Plan, includes a program that explicitly calls for collaborating with Stanford and transit agencies to “pursue improvements to the Palo Alto Transit Center area aimed at enhancing the pedestrian experience and improving circulation and access for all modes, including direct access to El Camino Real for transit vehicles.”

The Quarry Road project, according to Kamhi, would include bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure improvements such as an upgraded crosswalk at El Camino to reduce crossing time and safety measures such as refuge islands and high-visibility bicycle markings. One detail that remains unresolved is on whether it would be a two-way road or an outbound-only transit lane, according to Kamhi’s report.

The city currently leases El Camino Park from Stanford under an agreement set to expire in 2042. Palo Alto had “dedicated” the park for recreational and conservation purposes, which means that any other use would require approval from majority of the voters.

Kamhi noted that the portion of the 10.75-acre part that would need to be dedicated make up about 0.33 acres, which includes an 0.09-acre buffer zone. The portion of the park that would be replaced with a transit way is “underused” and “passive,” he noted. It does not have any playing fields but it does provide “circulation throughput that serves the park.”

If approved, the project would also require removal of about 15 trees, according to the report. And while Palo Alto residents are generally passionate about the topics of tree removal and the reduction of park space, Kamhi argues in the report that the proposed transit road is “akin to a park improvement project in that it improves multi-modal movement to and through the park.”

“The proposed transit connection would enhance the use and enjoyment of El Camino Park and the recreational amenities provided to the residents of Palo Alto and the surrounding communities,” Kamhi wrote.

The city’s Parks and Recreation Commission is scheduled to get an update on the project at its March 26 meeting. It will ultimately be up to the city council to decide whether or not to place this issue on the November ballot.
AISummary:

Palo Alto and Stanford University are working on a plan to convert a portion of El Camino Park into a roadway for buses. The plan would create a direct connection between the city’s bustling transit center on University Avenue and ElCamino Real. If the project moves forward, Stanford would foot the $3.2-million bill for the new road, which would stretch from the western edge of the bus depot to the park. The project would also require removal of about 15 trees, according to the report.

---

Headline: Police: Man with knife robs 7-Eleven
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/crime/2024/03/22/police-man-with-knife-robs-7-eleven/
Date and Time: Mar 22, 2024 05:00 PM
Content:


A man armed with a knife robbed a 7-Eleven in the Midtown neighborhood early Friday morning before running off with cash and a box of cigars, Palo Alto police said in a news release.

Police learned about the robbery at 12:28 a.m. on Friday, when they received a call from the store clerk at the 7-Eleven convenience store at 708 Colorado Ave., police said. The clerk, a man in his 30s, said a man had just walked into the store, brandished a knife and demanded money.

After the clerk gave him money from the register, the man reached over and took a box of cigars, which is valued at about $45, police said.

The man then fled west through the parking lot. According to the clerk, he appeared to be between 25 and 30 years old and was wearing a hoodie sweatshirt with the hood up and a face mask, according to the news release.

Police said officers had arrived at the scene shortly after the call but could not find the man. They are asking anyone with information to call the department’s dispatch center at (650) 329-2413 or send anonymous tips to paloalto@tipnow.org or (650) 383-8984.
AISummary:

Police learned about the robbery at 12:28 a.m. on Friday, when they received a call from the store clerk at the 7-Eleven convenience store at 708 Colorado Ave. The clerk, a man in his 30s, said a man had just walked into the store, brandished a knife and demanded money. After the clerk gave him money from the register, the man reached over and took a box of cigars, which is valued at about $45, police said. The man then fled west through the parking lot.

---

Headline: Letter to the editor: The future of California Avenue is at stake
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/letters-to-the-editor/2024/03/22/letter-to-the-editor-the-future-of-california-avenue-is-at-stake/
Date and Time: Mar 22, 2024 02:30 PM
Content:


Editor:

How unhappy I was to read the article, “Printer’s Cafe Set To Shuttle” in your paper dated 3/15/24. I have lived in Palo Alto since 1984, and I have seen a lot of losses of really unique local businesses, especially downtown (Cafe Verona, The Artifactory, and the original St. Michael’s coffeehouse, for example).

Printer’s Cafe is an iconic California Avenue place for friends to meet, solo eaters to eat in peace and quiet, students and anyone looking for a relaxed lunch location where you could eat indoors or out on the patio. But on the very next page, another sad announcement, “Gallery House To Move To Menlo Park.” Yikes! We will be losing a great local art gallery displaying paintings, sculptures, jewelry and whimsical ceramics, handily located behind the cafe. Many of the offerings were affordable, it felt great to support local artists, and it was a nice place to stroll through after a lunch or an excellent cup of coffee.

And all this is going to be replaced by a spectacle of spandex-coated posteriors running on treadmills? Feh! Where is the Historical Society, or at least some local citizens, who would like to see some of the real California Avenue vibe survive?

Dana St. George

Campesino Avenue, Palo Alto

Want to submit your own letter to the editor? Palo Alto Online publishes letters from local residents about news and issues taking place in the community. Send in your letter of no more than 400 words using our “Submit an opinion” form and it will be considered for publication.  
AISummary:

Printer’s Cafe is an iconic California Avenue place for friends to meet, solo eaters to eat in peace and quiet. It was a nice place to stroll through after a lunch or an excellent cup of coffee. And all this is going to be replaced by a spectacle of spandex-coated posteriors running on treadmills? Feh! Where is the Historical Society, or at least some local citizens, who would like to see some of the real California Avenue vibe survive?

---

Headline: Public Agenda
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-government/2024/03/22/public-agenda-16/
Date and Time: Mar 22, 2024 10:30 AM
Content:


CITY COUNCIL … The council plans to discuss its objectives for community health and safety and consider the composition of a citizen committee that will discuss raising council salaries. The meeting will begin at 5:30 p.m. on Monday, March 25, in the Council Chambers at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 362 027 238.

PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION … The commission plans to discuss the Quarry Road transit center project, hear a presentation on the city’s bicycle plan update and discuss the city’s field use policy. The meeting will begin at 7 p.m. on Tuesday, March 26, in the Council Chambers at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 999 3789 9745.

PLANNING AND TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION … The commission plans to review a proposal for a condominium subdivision at 739 Sutter Ave., discuss strategies to support retail and hear a report on Palo Alto Link. The meeting will begin at 6 p.m. on Wednesday, March 27, in the Council Chambers at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 916 4155 9499.

HISTORIC RESOURCES BOARD … The board will consider upgrading the status of a property at 261 Hamilton Ave. from Category 3 to Category 2 on the city’s Historic Inventory. The meeting will begin at 8:30 a.m. on Thursday, March 20, in the Community Meeting Room at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 999 3789 9745.

Here’s a roundup of government action this past week.

City Council (March 18)

San Antonio: The council heard a presentation from Cal Poly students about a concept plan to accommodate up to 2,000 new housing units on San Antonio Road. Action: NonePriority: The council approved its objectives in 2024 relating to sustainability and climate change. Yes: Unanimous

Council Rail Committee (March 19)

Rail: The committee heard a presentation from Caltrain about modifications that the city would need to make to its grade separation alternatives to comply with Caltrain’s engineering standards and board policies. Action: None

Council Finance Committee (March 19)

Nonprofits: The committee discussed refinements to its process for allocating grant funding to local nonprofits through the Human Services Resource Allocation Process. Action: None

Council Retail Committee (March 20)

Retail: The committee heard presentations about near- and long-term improvements for downtown and California Avenue. Action: None

Planning and Transportation Commission (March 13)

Density: The commission recommended revising the zoning code to make it consistent with the latest changes to the State Density Bonus Law. Yes: UnanimousBikes: The commission held a joint session with the Human Relations Commission to discuss a proposal from Caltrans to build bike lanes on El Camino Real. Action: NoneRetail: The commission discussed strategies for reducing vacancies in the city’s commercial areas, including downtown and California Avenue. The strategy includes loosening the city’s retail-protection ordinance and relaxing restrictions on formula retail. Action: None
AISummary:

The council will discuss its objectives for community health and safety. The planning and transportation commission will review a proposal for a condominium subdivision. The historic resources board will consider upgrading the status of a property at 261 Hamilton Ave. The council approved its objectives in 2024 relating to sustainability and climate change. The finance committee discussed refinements to its process for allocating grant funding to local nonprofits through the Human Services Resource Allocation Process. The retail committee heard presentations about near- and long-term improvements for downtown and California Avenue.

---

Headline: Review raises safety concerns about El Camino bike lanes
URL: https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/03/22/review-raises-safety-concerns-about-el-camino-bike-lanes/
Date and Time: Mar 22, 2024 09:23 AM
Content:


As the state Department of Transportation pushes ahead with its plan to remove parking spaces and install bike lanes along El Camino Real, project proponents insist that the project intends to minimize collisions and improve road safety.

But a new review of the Caltrans plan commissioned by the City of Palo Alto reaches a starkly different conclusion. Conducted by Fehr & Peers, the review concluded that the Caltrans proposal fails to address the high-speed conditions that would continue to exist on El Camino and which would continue to pose “significant risks to vulnerable road users.”

The review, which the firm released on March 11, suggests that the Caltrans plan would not be consistent with the “safe system” approach, which the agency has adopted and which the city is preparing to integrate into its new bike plan. The approach, the consultants write, “recognizes the role of kinetic energy (speed and vehicle mass) and exposure as the root causes of severe injuries and fatalities, and requires a redundant, holistic, and proactive approach to address systemic risk.

“The core principles of the approach are to first reduce speed, and then to separate users in space and time consistent with the contextually appropriate speed,” Steve David and Meghan Mitman of Fehr & Peers wrote in the new report.

The bike lane plan, they argue, fails to do that. It does not address the high-speed conditions for vulnerable users in the corridor, which pose the greatest risk of injuries and fatalities. In particular, it retains the present number of lanes and the existing lane widths while removing the “friction” that is currently created by on-street parking, the review states.

The Caltrans plan also does not address turning movement speed at intersections where, according to Caltrans’ data, the vast majority of El Camino collisions occur. The review also noted that the design includes some areas where bicycle lanes drop altogether, leaving no protected treatments for cyclists. High-stress conditions, the review found, “persist for bicyclists traveling the corridor and these weakest links lead to an overall high stress condition that is likely to limit mode shift potential.”

The proposed alignment will also create new conflict points between bicyclists and buses, particularly once bicyclists who currently used the sidewalk shift to on-street riding, the review states.

The review was performed just weeks before the Palo Alto City Council is slated to consider on April 1 a resolution to remove all parking spaces from both sides of El Camino Real to accommodate Caltrans plans. If things go as planned, Caltrans would complete the project next year.

Fehr & Peers didn’t recommend scrapping the project. Instead, its consultants proposed a slate of near- and long-term improvements for Caltrans to consider as part of the bike lane project. These include creating a design that allows buses to stop in the right lane and provide bicyclists with a designated lane to the right of the bus stops; adding “paint and plastic” protections at intersections, narrowing lane width for cars to accommodate wider bike lanes or buffer zones for cyclists; and reconfiguring intersections to shorten the distance pedestrians have to cross the street.

In the long term, the consultants say Caltrans should consider removing one travel lane in each direction and restoring on-street parking to slow traffic. Caltrans should also consider adding new midblock crossings “to serve desire lines for pedestrians and bicyclists traveling to key destinations in the corridor, including bus stops,” they say.

To date, Caltrans’ plan has generated a mixed reaction from the community, with some bicyclists praising the state effort as a much-needed improvement to a dangerous stretch and others arguing that the plan needs significant changes. Dozens of bicyclists and community members attended recent community meetings to thank Caltrans for advancing its plans. One speaker, Emil Abraham, said it would be an “absolute shame” if Palo Alto missed out on new bike lanes.

“I’m glad to have Caltrans on the side of a brighter and greener future and I hope Palo Alto is also on board,” Abraham said at a March 13 hearing.

Others suggested that the current plans fall short and urged revisions. Alan Wachtel, who serves on the Palo Alto Pedestrian and Bicycle Committee, requested additional improvements at crosswalks and suggested at the March 13 meeting that bikeways could become “high-stress areas” if they involve conflicts with drivers at intersections.

Penny Ellson, community volunteer for Bike Palo Alto, requested Caltrans to integrate pedestrian refuge islands and other improvements at intersections to make conditions safer for people looking to cross El Camino. She called the proposal currently on the table an “incomplete complete streets plan.”

“I am overall dismayed by Caltrans’ overall failures to use this paving opportunity to improve crossing on El Camino Real in every city on the corridor, not just PA, especially on school commute routes and transit crossings,” Ellson said. “Paint, which is really all we’re getting at the intersections — and plastic — is a prayer. It’s not a safety plan for people of all ages and ability to have to cross this six or seven lane highway.”

Sergio Ruiz, Caltrans’ complete streets coordinator, said at a March 13 public hearing that the agency’s decisions on El Camino were informed both the Caltrans policy on “complete streets” and existing regional plans such as the Grand Boulevard Initiative and the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority Bike Plan, which underscore the important role of El Camino in connecting communities.

“One of the key findings that came about in reviewing all the planning documents is the desire and need for continuous bike facilities along El Camino Real, not just in Palo Alto, but in adjoining jurisdictions as well since it does provide the most direct connections and there is an need to have improved access to destinations on El Camino and not just parallel bike boulevards and bike routes that could be somewhat circuitous,” Ruiz said.

The city’s board and commissions have not taken any positions on the Caltrans proposal, though at a recent hearing, some Planning and Transportation Commission members voiced concerns about the design elements of the new proposals. Commissioner Keith Reckdahl said during the March 13 discussion that Park Boulevard will remain a superior pathway for bicyclists, even if the new El Camino lanes are installed, and suggested that the city and Caltrans may be “rushing things” when it comes to the bike project.

“I love bike lanes — they are an asset to the community, but we have issues to solve and some of them we can perhaps mitigate, others we won’t,” Reckdahl said. “I think there’s a lot of hope going on here that everything is going to work out, and I hope it does, because it has the potential for really helping out the community. But also there could be a lot of unintended consequences here.”

Human Relations Commission member Mary Kate Stimmler was more sanguine about the El Camino project. While she concurred with Reckdahl that Park will remain a better north-south route, El Camino remains a critical thoroughfare with many destinations that will continue to attract riders.

“I think we have an opportunity to make it a cleaner, neater, safer street right now, which is pretty incredible,” Stimmler said.
AISummary:

A new review of the Caltrans plan commissioned by the City of Palo Alto reaches a starkly different conclusion. The state Department of Transportation wants to remove parking spaces and install bike lanes along El Camino Real. The project proponents insist that the project intends to minimize collisions and improve road safety. But a new review by Fehr & Peers concludes that the plan fails to address the high-speed conditions that would continue to exist on the stretch of road. The review was performed just weeks before the Palo Alto City Council is slated to consider on April 1 a resolution to remove all parking spaces.

---

